=====PDFPAGE 1=====
 
 
BEFORE THE PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION OF NEVADA 
Joint Application of Nevada Power Company d/b/a NV 
Energy and Sierra Pacific Power Company d/b/a NV 
Energy for approval of their joint 2025-2044 integrated Docket No. 24-05___ 
resource plan, for the three year Action Plan period 
2025-2027, and the Energy Supply Plan period of 2025-
2027. 
VOLUME 6 OF 29 
NEVADA POWER COMPANY D/B/A NV ENERGY AND 
SIERRA PACIFIC POWER COMPANY D/B/A NV ENERGY 
DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBER 
Narrative-Load Forecast, Market Fundamentals, Fuel and 2 Purchase Power Price Forecasts (Redacted) 
Technical Appendix 
LF-1 Load Forecast 52 
State Demographer Long-Term Pop Projections, 2022- LF-2 142 2041 
Demographer 2022 Governor Certified Series- LF-3 152 Population Estimates of Nevada's Counties 
Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Year to Date LF-4 156 executive summary for 2023 
2023 CBER Clark County Population Forecast, June LF-5 158 2023 
LF-6 SP Global IHS Economics 2023 (Confidential) 213 
=====PDFPAGE 2=====
NARRATIVE 
LOAD FORECAST, MARKET FUNDAMENTALS, FUEL AND 
PURCHASE POWER PRICE FORECASTS 
Page 2 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 3=====
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 1 – LOAD FORECAST 
A. LOAD FORECAST 
The load forecast for the 2024 Joint IRP was completed in October 2023 and covers calendar years 
2025 through 2044 (“2024 Joint IRP Forecast”). The 2024 Joint IRP Forecast updates several inputs 
and includes incremental changes relative to the load forecast that was filed in Docket No. 22-
09006, the Companies’ Third Amendment to the 2021 Joint IRP Forecast (“2021 IRPA 3rd 
Forecast”). These updates include items detailed in the January 9, 2023, stipulation accepted by the 
Commission in approving the load forecast filed in Docket No. 22-09006. The results of the 
forecast update, as well as highlights of changes from the 2021 IRPA 3rd Forecast, are discussed 
below. 
1. Load Forecast Summary 
The 2024 Joint IRP Forecast was updated with actual data through June 2023 for several inputs, 
including data updates to the economic and demographic inputs, electric vehicle (“EV”) sales that 
forms the basis of the Market Potential Study within the Demand Side Management (“DSM”) plan, 
and updated forecasted growth of large customer major projects. Several methodology changes to 
certain aspects of the forecast (e.g. use of hourly load data as starting basis instead of monthly 
billed data, refinements to weather normalization adjustments, consideration of Demand Response 
(“DR”) programs as a resource rather than as a load modifier, and distinct Net-Energy Metering 
(“NEM”) customer and sales forecasts) have also been incorporated. Additionally, load reductions 
for customers taking Distribution-Only Service (“DOS”) and determination of NRS Chapter 704B 
eligible load limits were also considered for this filing. These changes, and the resulting effects, 
will be discussed in more detail later, as well as in Technical Appendix LF-1. 
The key driver for growth in the 2024 Joint IRP Forecast is the unprecedented load growth expected 
from 39 bundled-service projects considered for this forecast. These projects are located primarily 
within the Tahoe-Reno Industrial Center (“TRIC”) area in Sierra’s service territory and the Apex 
area at Nevada Power. In total, these customers have requested approximately 7,600 MW of 
capacity additions, with nearly 6,500 MW at Sierra and 1,180 MW at Nevada Power. Twelve of 
these projects are bundled-service high load factor data centers requesting 5,900 MW of capacity 
by 2033. Consistent with past practice, these requests are scaled down in the retail load forecast, 
but still incorporate 13,288 GWh of load growth over the next 10 years for this 2024 Joint IRP 
Forecast. 
In accordance with NAC § 704.923(2), Table LF-1 is a summary of the forecasted peak and energy 
use from 2025 through 2044. Table LF-2 highlights changes from the 2021 IRPA 3rd Forecast. It 
is important to note that the Companies’ peak demands may be lower than the combined sum of 
the individual system peaks at Sierra and Nevada Power due to diversity between the two systems, 
i.e., they do not necessarily peak at the same time. Therefore, combining Nevada Power’s and 
Page 3 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 4=====
 
 
Sierra’s load forecasts results in load diversity in which the combined system peak demand is 
typically lower than the sum of the individual company peak demands. 
For the three-year action plan period 2025 through 2027, the Compound Annual Growth Rate 
(“CAGR”) of the annual retail energy for the Companies is 1.9 percent (1.1 percent at Nevada 
Power and 3.3 percent at Sierra). Annual energy consumption during this period increases 2,059 
GWh for the combined NV Energy system, with 779 GWh at Nevada Power and 1,280 GWh at 
Sierra. The CAGR of the Companies’ coincident peak is 0.9 percent (0.4 percent at Nevada Power 
and 1.9 percent at Sierra). System Peak Demand is expected to increase 226 MW for the combined 
system during the three-year action plan period, with 87 MW at Nevada Power and 133 MW at 
Sierra. 
For the 20-year forecast period 2025 through 2044, the CAGR of the annual retail energy for the 
Companies is 2.9 percent (1.9 percent at Nevada Power and 4.4 percent at Sierra). Annual energy 
consumption increases 27,164 GWh for the combined NV Energy system, with 10,209 GWh at 
Nevada Power and 16,955 GWh at Sierra. The CAGR of the Companies’ coincident peak is 2.2 
percent (1.4 percent at Nevada Power and 4.9 percent at Sierra). System Peak Demand is expected 
to increase 4,811 MW for the combined system during this period, with 2,480 MW at Nevada 
Power and 2,381 MW at Sierra. 
Page 4 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 5=====
TABLE LF-1 
ANNUAL NATIVE ENERGY (GHW) AND PEAK (MW) 
Page 5 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 6=====
 
TABLE LF-2 
NV ENERGY FORECAST COMPARISON 
2. Load Forecast Process 
The 2024 Joint IRP Forecast continues to be developed using a bottom-up data-driven modelling 
approach and maintains substantial portions of the same methodology, while incorporating several 
changes from the 2021 IRPA 3rd Forecast. In this filing, the process begins with hourly class load 
data, rather than monthly billing data as had been used in previous forecasts. The process begins 
by estimating customer class sales and customer models with class-level sales forecasts that are 
ultimately translated into system energy requirements. Each component is adjusted for expected 
decreases from DSM programs and incremental EV charging. All components are summed and 
adjusted for losses, thereby projecting total system energy and peak demand for each region. The 
combined Companies’ system forecast is derived by combining the resulting Sierra and Nevada 
Power hourly load forecasts. 
Page 6 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 7=====
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The main inputs included in these modelling efforts are: 
1. Nevada’s population, which drives the Residential, Small and Medium Commercial & 
Industrial (“Small C&I” and “Medium C&I” respectively) customer count models. 
2. For Residential use per customer, the models are primarily driven by weather (cooling 
and heating degree days), average price per kWh, household income, persons per 
household, and Companies-sponsored energy efficiency (“EE”) programs. Model end￾use intensity projections are adjusted for EE programs savings. 
3. Small C&I and Medium C&I use per customer models rely on population and economic 
data, weather, price, and the Companies’ sponsored EE programs through end-use 
intensity adjustments. 
4. Large C&I customer group forecast is developed by type of customer, rely on economic 
employment and output indices to develop use per customer models for the forecast. 
Certain Large C&I customers are individually forecasted and added to this general 
forecast to achieve the total Large C&I forecast amounts. 
5. Additional adjustments: Class sales forecasts are adjusted for the Companies’ sponsored 
EE programs, incremental electric vehicle load additions, and large customer 
adjustments discussed below. 
For the Residential, Small C&I, and Medium C&I classes, separate models are estimated for 
monthly customer counts and average use per customer, which are used to calculate total group 
sales as the product of customer and average use forecasts. In this 2024 Joint IRP Forecast, 
population growth is also used to forecast the irrigation customer groups. Further, NEM customers 
are now separately forecasted using installed capacity and residential customer counts to reflect the 
continued rapid growth of customer-owned rooftop solar generation seen over the past several 
years. Previous forecast updates considered the load reduction resulting from the growth of private 
generation on the system, but did not separately account for their impact on sales. In this 2024 Joint 
IRP Forecast, the separate NEM forecasts are removed from the larger Residential and Small C&I 
forecasts to identify the estimated impact of rooftop solar on the ultimate sales of these customer 
groups and achieve the ultimate sales forecasts for these customer groups. 
In the 2024 Joint IRP Forecast, Large C&I customer loads are now separately forecast by type of 
customer (e.g. Manufacturing, Casino, Mine, Data Center, Water, General Industrial) and included 
as a portion of the larger overall Large C&I customer group. Certain Large C&I customers are 
individually forecasted and added to this general forecast to achieve the total Large C&I forecast 
amounts. Forecasts for these customers are based on discussions with the Companies’ Major 
Account, Economic Development, and Major Projects groups, and customer input related to 
expected business activity and associated sales and demand impacts. A forecast for those customer 
Page 7 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 8=====
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
classes who have on-site generation, and where the Companies stand by for a portion of their load 
in the event the generation stops working (“Standby”), is guided by recent history and is added as 
part of the Large C&I customer group forecast. These Large C&I sales forecasts may be also 
adjusted for customer-specific forecasts including DOS-related sales loss. As a note, loads of DOS 
customer classes are forecasted in a similar manner, but do not affect the Companies’ retail load 
requirements, and are therefore not included in the load forecast generally presented here. 
Load forecasts for lighting and irrigation customers sales are estimated separately. Street Lighting 
(“SL”) and Outdoor Lighting Service models (“OLS”) are developed separately in this 2024 Joint 
IRP Forecast. The OLS sales are included in the corresponding Residential and Small C&I sales 
results for Nevada Power. Forecasts for the Sierra irrigation (“IRR”) and Public Street and Highway 
Lighting (“STL”) classes at both Companies are developed based on recent history. 
These customer group hourly sales forecasts, including adjustments for DSM and EE program 
savings and incremental EV loads, are aggregated to determine the total level of hourly system 
sales over the 2025-2044 period. Next, system losses are estimated and added to the hourly system 
sales, to derive the total system native load energy and peak requirements for both Sierra and 
Nevada Power. These hourly system values are summed for the combined Companies’ system. 
Further details on the data and steps to develop the load forecast are provided in Technical 
Appendix LF-1. 
3. Load Forecast Inputs 
The following items are updated for each new load forecast. Each item and the manner in which it 
impacts the 2024 Joint IRP Forecast are described below and discussed in more detail in Technical 
Appendix LF-1. 
a. Population Forecast 
The 2024 Joint IRP Forecast has been updated with an economic outlook issued by S&P Global in 
June 2023, and population estimates from the Nevada State Demographer and the University of 
Nevada, Las Vegas, Center for Business and Economic Research (“CBER”). In the 2024 Joint IRP 
Forecast, Nevada Power’s models include a Clark County population forecast based on the 
historical population series from the State Demographer Governor’s Certified Series from 2002-
2022. The 2024 Joint IRP Forecast used an extrapolation of population series using the average of 
the annual growth rates obtained from S&P Global’s IHS Markit forecast (released June 2023), the 
State Demographer’s 20-year population projections (2022-2041), and the CBER long-term 
forecast (released May 2023), with minor adjustments to smooth forecasted growth. 
Sierra’s models use northern Nevada’s population history and forecast, which is Nevada minus 
Clark County’s population. In the updated forecast, the Sierra historical population was developed 
Page 8 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 9=====
 
from the State Demographer Governor’s Certified Series from 2002-2022. Then, the forecast used 
the growth rate from the State Demographer’s 20-year population projections (2022-2041) with 
minor adjustments to smooth the forecasted growth. Technical Appendix LF-1 provides further 
details on the development of the economic data and after the model sales adjustments. 
Table LF-3 shows the population forecasts for the Companies, Nevada Power and Sierra from 2023 
through 2044. For the 10-year period from 2023 through 2033, the CAGR used in the forecast is 
1.0 percent for the Companies, 1.2 percent for Nevada Power and 0.7 percent for Sierra. For the 
21-year period from 2023-2044, the CAGR used in the forecast is 0.8 percent for NV Energy, 0.9 
percent for Nevada Power, and 0.6 percent for Sierra. 
TABLE LF-3 
POPULATION FORECAST 
Page 9 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 10=====
 
 
 
 
 
b. Customer Data 
The average use per customer information for Residential and Small C&I groups has been refined 
to begin with hourly class load information, rather than historical monthly billed sales. The sales 
forecasts are developed by multiplying the number of customers by the average use per customer. 
Once developed, the hourly sales forecasts are weather normalized by distinct monthly coefficients 
instead of the annual regression model used in the 2021 IRPA 3rd Forecast. 
The Companies are including a separate NEM customer-owned generation forecast for rooftop 
solar customers in this filing. The 2021 IRPA 3rd Forecast included reductions in total system loads 
from incremental NEM generation, but reflected these load reductions at the system level, and not 
as specific sales reductions. Therefore, the growth in the number of NEM customers on sales was 
essentially kept constant with the population growth rate. In this update, recent historical trends 
were used to forecast growth of NEM customers and sales. The movement from full requirement 
customers to partial requirement customers are now separately accounted for in the overall sales 
forecast. Projected incremental peak reductions of 25 MW at Nevada Power and 10 MW at Sierra 
by 2025 are based on the installed capacity of 942 MW and 71 MW for each respective company. 
More discussion of the impact of net metering on the load forecast is contained in Technical 
Appendix Item LF-1. 
The information developed for new, or expanding, individual Large C&I customers was a 
particularly intriguing, yet challenging, aspect in preparation of this forecast update as there is an 
unprecedented amount of expected load growth in this sector over the next 10 years. In total, 39 
bundled-service projects have requested approximately 7,600 MW of capacity additions, with 
nearly 6,500 MW at Sierra and 1,180 MW at Nevada Power, by 2033. Twelve of these projects are 
bundled-service high load factor data center who have requested 5,900 MW of capacity and energy 
alone. 
Of the 39 projects, 14 have signed customer Rule 9 agreements requesting 2,630 MW of bundled￾service capacity at Sierra and 190 MW of capacity at Nevada Power by 2033. The remaining 25 
projects are in the engineering study phase and have requested 4,800 MW of additional capacity, 
with 3,800 MW at Sierra and 990 MW at Nevada Power over the same period. Consistent with past 
practice, all of these requests are scaled down in the retail load forecast. Historically, approximately 
40 percent of study phase projects move forward. The load levels included in this sales forecast 
were significantly reduced beyond that typically incorporated into the sales forecast for individual 
Major Projects who have signed Rule 9 agreements. The loads of projects in the study phase saw 
an average reduction of 85 percent; the loads of projects with signed Rule 9 agreements were 
reduced by 49 percent. Table LF-4 summarizes the customer requested MW amounts and the 
ultimate capacity included in this forecast update. 
Page 10 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 11=====
 
TABLE LF-4 
MAJOR PROJECT SUMMARY 
The 2024 Joint IRP forecast is made at a point in time for preparation of this filing and cannot 
reflect constant updates to these projects. While there have been several changes to the project list 
since these inputs to the 2024 Joint ESP forecast were developed in August 2023, the current state 
of these projects in Nevada continues to support the overall load levels included in the 2024 Joint 
ESP forecast. Since these inputs were finalized, zero projects with signed Rule 9 agreements have 
been cancelled, five study phase have signed agreements, three other projects in the study phase 
Page 11 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 12=====
 
 
 
have been put on hold, and four additional study phase projects that would now be included for 
consideration. 
The net effect of any updates; removing the study phase projects placed on hold, adding new 
projects, and modifying the expected loads of those projects with now-signed agreements, would 
provide an overall 2,304 MW increase in the amount of requested capacity for signed Rule 9 
agreement projects at the expense of a 2,605 MW decrease of Study phase projects, for a net 
decrease of 301 MW of requested capacity. However, applying a consistent approach to the 
mitigation of these requested amounts, as that included in the base forecast, results in a net increase 
of approximately 800 MW of expected loads by 2033, since the incremental signed agreement 
project amounts are discounted by lower amounts than those currently in the study phase. 
At Nevada Power, the Water Pumping/Public Authority customers are separately forecast and are 
driven by the population estimates to derive customer counts. At Sierra, the irrigation customer 
classes (e.g. IS-1, IS-2 and Elko WP classes) are separately forecasted using northern Nevada 
population estimates. 
Street Lighting lamp counts and sales were maintained at current levels throughout the forecast due 
to expected efficiencies in the adoption of LED type lamps that are expected to be offset by 
customer growth over the forecast period. 
c. Normal Weather Conditions 
Pursuant to NAC § 704.9281(1)(b), sales have been weather normalized for the 2024 Joint IRP 
Forecast. In this filing, the Companies adjusted hourly sales using calculated daily normal values 
for each month, rather than annual values presented in the 2021 IRPA 3rd Forecast. Twenty years 
of trended historical values were ranked by month, and average temperatures for each within-month 
rank were used to provide trended normal temperatures during the forecast period. The daily 
average temperature is used to calculate Cooling Degree Days (“CDD”) and Heating Degree Days 
(“HDD”) measurements for use in the modelling process. CDDs and HDDs are simply the number 
of degrees that the average daily temperature is above (for CDD) or below (for HDD) a set 
threshold, with the threshold determined statistically for each customer class. Those days where 
the average daily temperature is greater than the threshold are considered days where customers 
will increase cooling usage, while those days under the threshold will show increases related to 
heating usage. Calendar HDDs and CDDs are generated by summing the daily degree-days over 
the calendar month. 
As filed in the 2021 IRPA 3rd Forecast, the normal HDDs and CDDs are based on expected 
increases in average temperatures, which results in increasing CDD and decreasing HDD over the 
forecast period. A study on temperature trends, conducted by Itron, Inc., has been updated in this 
filing. The updated results found average temperatures in Las Vegas have been increasing 0.105 
degrees per year (1.05 degrees per decade). For Reno, average temperatures have been increasing 
Page 12 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 13=====
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0.139 degrees per year (1.39 degrees per decade). Based on several climate studies, average 
temperatures are expected to continue to increase through the forecast period. 
Technical Appendix LF-1 includes a description of the process for developing trended normal HDD 
and CDD and the weather normalization adjustments incorporated into the 2024 Joint IRP Forecast. 
d. End-Use Saturation and Efficiency Trends 
The Companies used a combined end-use saturation and average stock efficiency projections to 
generate projected energy intensities. Mountain region census-level residential end-use saturations 
were derived from the 2023 U.S. Energy Information Administration (“EIA”) Annual Energy 
Outlook (“AEO”) developed for use by Itron, Inc. Commercial end-use intensities are also based 
on the 2023 AEO for the Mountain Census Division. Technical Appendix LF-1 provides additional 
details. 
e. Retail Prices 
In this 2024 Joint IRP Forecast, the Retail Price component was specifically excluded from the 
statistically adjusted end-use modelling efforts so that the results could be individually presented. 
This is an effort to respond to the Commission’s requests for more detailed rate impact analyses in 
recent IRP amendments. Therefore, the 2024 Joint IRP Forecast calculates the potential load impact 
stemming from changes in price separately. The forecasted rates, resulting from the Companies’ 
rate impact analysis and detailed in the Financial Plan of the 2024 Joint IRP Narrative, are used to 
estimate the potential impacts on the load forecast. Technical Appendix LF-1 provides more details. 
f. Behind the Meter Energy Storage 
Following the methodology from the 2021 IRPA 3rd Forecast, the Companies made no specific 
adjustments related to energy storage estimates to this 2024 Joint IRP Forecast. Customers who 
have installed energy storage as part of a rooftop solar installation are included in the total 
population of NEM customers but are not separately considered. As of July 2023, there are 
approximately 2,370 customers with electric storage capacity between both Nevada Power and 
Sierra. Expected impacts beyond general NEM characteristics are small, and therefore have not 
been separately included in the 2024 Joint IRP Forecast. 
Until the Companies have sufficient data regarding the operating characteristics of behind-the 
meter storage (either stand-alone or coupled with solar PV), adjustments (either increases, 
decreases, and/or shifts in load) are difficult to model. The Companies expect storage impacts in 
future forecasts once there is sufficient hourly storage operating data available to demonstrate 
markedly different usage patterns of these customers from the larger NEM population. 
Page 13 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 14=====
 
 
 
 
 
 
g. Impacts on Energy Savings from DSM Action Plan 
As previously filed in the 2021 IRPA 3rd Forecast, the forecasted reductions in the base load 
forecast for the 2024 Joint IRP Forecast are based on a goal of 1.10 percent (excluding DR) of 
forecasted sales for each company.1 DR program load reductions are now reflected within the 
Loads & Resources table. Modifications to proposed DSM programs, detailed within the DSM 
plan, are included in an additional load forecast scenario. More details on these DSM energy 
savings impacts to the forecast are contained in Technical Appendix LF-1. 
h. Electric Vehicles 
An incremental EV forecast, developed by Energy and Environmental Economics, Inc. (“E3”), is 
incorporated into the 2024 Joint IRP Forecast. This component of the 2024 Joint IRP Forecast 
assumes that EV adoption grows to account for 25 percent of total vehicles in Nevada by 2033. By 
2044, this percentage increases to 44 percent. This represents growth rates of 22 percent annually 
over the next 10 years. Incorporated into the sales growth are assumptions that the average EV is 
driven for 12,865 miles annually and that the “rated” efficiency for the average vehicle on the road 
today is 3.47 miles per kWh. Additionally, E3’s RESHAPE-EV model applies a derate to the 
vehicle’s efficiency to capture the impacts of ambient temperature on the efficiency of the vehicle’s 
battery and auxiliary energy use in the vehicle (e.g. use of the vehicle’s air conditioning) while 
driving. Considering the impacts of ambient temperature, vehicles on the road today are assumed 
to drive 2.87 miles per 1 kWh of charging. This results in an average annual electric use per EV of 
4,480 kWh. Further, this 2024 Joint IRP Forecast assumes that battery efficiency will increase by 
1 percent a year. The forecasted incremental loads are added to both the residential and commercial 
customer group forecasts based on the split modeled with RESHAPE-EV which showed 70 percent 
of charging will occur at home and 30 percent will occur at work or public charging. As a result, 
the updated statewide electric vehicle energy sales by 2030 are approximately 2,190 GWh annually, 
or an hourly average of 250 MW, by 2030 (combined for both Companies). 
4. Forecast Scenarios 
Several modifications were made for additional load forecast scenarios for this filing. Two 
scenarios, a low load scenario and a high load scenario, incorporate changes to assumptions to the 
base load forecast. The June 2023 S&P Global optimistic and pessimistic economic forecasts were 
used to develop the high and low forecasts. Large customer load was adjusted for each forecast to 
represent optimistic (high forecast) or pessimistic (low forecast) assumptions. Further, the low load 
scenario reduced the incremental sales growth related to the EV forecast and increased the adoption 
1 The DSM portfolio proposed in the 2024 Joint IRP is not tied to the 1.1 percent of sales savings target. 
Page 14 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 15=====
 
rates of NEM customer installations included in the base forecast. Table LF-5 is a summary of the 
base, high and low forecasts for each company. 
TABLE LF-5 
BASE, HIGH, AND LOW PEAK FORECASTS (MW) 
The next scenarios developed for this filing modify the load forecast to incorporate 1) a Hot 
Summer/Cold Winter (“HSCW”) and 2) a 1-in-10 weather scenario. The HSCW weather 
adjustment uses the highest average daily summer temperature and coldest average daily winter 
temperature over the past ten years to develop a more extreme weather scenario. The 1-in-10 
scenario performs the same CDD adjustment for the summer season. 
Two additional scenarios were also performed that includes the Companies’ proposed DSM 
programs in an additional load forecast scenario, and another that increases these amounts by 20 
percent. These scenarios modify the base load forecast to remove the current 1.1 percent of annual 
sales to those savings identified within the Demand Side Management plan for each scenario. 
Page 15 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 16=====
 
 
 
 
 
 
The final scenario is a forecast excluding the eligible loads for those Large C&I customers who 
decide to exit bundled service and choose service from another provider during the 2025-2027 
period. Further detail on this scenario is provided in the next section. 
5. NRS Chapter 704B Annual Limits for 2025-2027 Action Plan Period 
Pursuant to subsection 6 of NRS 704.741, the Companies are required to include in each triennial 
Joint IRP filing a proposal for annual limits on the total amount of energy and capacity that eligible 
NRS Chapter 704B customers may be authorized to purchase from providers of new electric 
resources during the three-year action plan period. Pursuant to NRS 704.741(2)(a)(1), a load 
forecast of future retail electric demand must not include the amount of energy and capacity 
proposed as annual limits on the total amount of energy and capacity that eligible NRS Chapter 
704B customers may be authorized to purchase from their providers of new electric resources. The 
proposal must be a product of a sensitivity analysis that, at a minimum, addresses load growth, 
import capacity, system constraints and the effect of eligible customers purchasing less energy and 
capacity than authorized by the proposed annual limit. 
Accordingly, the Companies created a load forecast version that removes the eligible MWh sales 
for Nevada Power and Sierra respectively during the 2025-2027 action plan period. Detail on the 
steps to develop the eligible load limits, and consideration of the sensitivity analyses performed, is 
summarized in Section V of Technical Appendix LF-1. 
To determine load growth eligible for the 704B annual limits, a three-year average of historical 
loads over the 2021-2023 period were considered as the base loads for the calculation of the annual 
limits. NV Energy anticipates that, over the three-year action plan period (January 2025 to 
December 2027), Large C&I loads are anticipated to increase by 521,324 MWh (59.5 MW) for 
Nevada Power and by 2,448,562 MWh (279.5 MW) for Sierra. 
Next, reflecting the methodology approved in the 2021 Joint IRP, calculations exclude customers 
on special pricing tariffs for both Nevada Power and Sierra loads. The resulting loads are subtracted 
from the historical base load comparison to determine the total eligible load growth. Applying the 
maximum annual limits prescribed by the proposed regulation, without applying any of the 
sensitivity analysis factors, yields 260,662 MWh (29.8 MW) total action plan period limit for 
Nevada Power and 1,224,281 MWh (139.8 MW) for Sierra. 
During the 2025-2027 action plan period, import capacity constraints are anticipated to continue at 
Sierra. Currently, Sierra has 681 MW of import transmission service requests placed in a 
reservation queue for third-party network customers. Sierra is not projected to satisfy this 
outstanding import capacity need during the action plan period. Greenlink West increases Sierra’s 
import capacity by 725 MW, of which 44 MW will be allocated to Sierra’s existing 623 MW native 
load capacity requirements after the 681 MW of network customer reservations are met. In 2029, 
Greenlink North increases Sierra’s import capacity by an additional 800 MW and will provide the 
Page 16 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 17=====
 
 
 
 
 
 
remaining 579 MW for native load capacity. The remaining 221 MW will be allocated to native 
load requirements in 2032. Thus, due to the current import capacity constraints, analysis of this 
factor places the annual limits for Sierra for the action plan period at 0 MW. 
Nevada Power’s available import capacity is 3,214 MW. In light of this ample open import 
capacity, Nevada Power does not propose to impose any limits on the amount of energy and 
capacity available to eligible 704B applicants on account of import capacity restrictions. More 
information on the import capacity can be found in the Transmission Plan section of the Supply 
Plan Narrative. 
While no further adjustments were made to account for other system constraints in this forecast 
update, consideration of area-specific limitations may be contemplated in future filings due to the 
large growth and capacity restraints expected within the local TRIC area at Sierra and Apex Area 
in Nevada Power’s service territory. 
After consideration of the sensitivity analysis factors, the limit for the three-year action plan period 
for Nevada Power is proposed to be set at 260,662 MWh, which translates into an average hourly 
29.8 MW load. Sierra’s limit remains unchanged at 0 MW, due to continued system import capacity 
constraints on the system. 
The total Action Plan annual limits amount can be made available in any number of tranche 
combinations: front loaded, back loaded, or broken down equally among each of the three years 
(9.9 MW per year). 
In the case of eligible customers located in Nevada Power’s service territory purchasing less energy 
and capacity than authorized by the proposed annual limits, the unreserved MW loads would have 
to be served in addition to the native load forecasted in this 2024 Joint IRP. Considering Nevada 
Power’s anticipated peak loads and reserve margin, Nevada Power expects that it will be able to 
serve the additional load with minimal effect on rates paid by its customers and no effect on the 
reliability of service. 
To develop the modified Nevada Power load forecast, the total load reduction is spread to hours 
across the year following the load shape of the Large C&I customer group loads and is subtracted 
from the base forecast. Due to the relatively small amount of the proposed annual limits, the 
removal of these loads from the forecast results in the same Preferred Plan as if the loads were 
included.2 
2 The Companies seek guidance from the Commission as to whether, in future filings, the preferred plan should be 
built off the load forecast with or without the proposed annual limits. The Companies’ concerns lay with a scenario in 
which the Commission authorizes annual limits significantly different from the proposed and the change materially 
alters the analysis performed for the Companies’ preferred or alternate plans. 
Page 17 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 18=====
 
 
 
 
 
6. NRS Chapter 704B Transition Rates for 2025-2027 Action Plan Period 
Once the 704B modified load forecast is compared to the base forecast, the resulting difference in 
system costs are used to develop the rates that these customers will pay during their three-year 
transition period to DOS status. The rate calculations follow the steps detailed in the Transition 
Charge/Credit Master Formula document filed with the Commission as Attachment 3 on May 8, 
2020, in Docket No. 19-06029. The regulations include the provisions that these customers will 
continue to pay the fully bundled Base Tariff General Rates (“BTGR”) for a three-year period, and 
a rate for the Base Tariff Energy Rate net of variable costs (“Net Differential Energy Rate”) for a 
three-year period. In addition, the incremental Renewable BTER (“R-BTER”) rate and other public 
policy program rates shall be included on an ongoing basis for these customer’s bills. Further, 
additional costs related to decommissioning and remediation costs, and regulatory asset charges 
may be imposed by the Commission for customers choosing to exit bundled service for a third￾party energy provider. 
Calculations for the Net Differential Energy rates were performed as follows: 
• Calculate the difference in average monthly Fuel & Purchased Power (“F&PP”) system 
costs over the action plan period between the base case expansion plan and the change case 
plan system costs modelled in PLEXOS. 
• Once the difference is calculated, the portion of the BTER impact associated with the 
current and ongoing legislatively mandated public policy costs affecting the net BTER 
include, without limitation: 
o The out-of-money costs of long-term renewable contracts. 
o Non-bypassable costs attributed to public policies applicable to eligible customers. 
• Next, the costs associated with the R-BTER renewable costs and other non-bypassable costs 
to the annual limits are subtracted from the BTER system impact cost to determine the net 
BTER cost. 
• This adjusted amount is then divided by the energy consumption in kilowatt-hours from the 
annual limits in the production cost model which derives the Net Differential Energy rate. 
The Variable O&M credit is calculated as the overall difference in variable O&M costs between 
the base case and the change case. It will be applied on a volumetric basis and reflects the reduction 
in variable O&M costs related to the exit of the eligible loads from bundled service. 
Additionally, Section 12 of the proposed regulation submitted to the Legislative Counsel Bureau 
("LCB") in Docket No. 19-06029 requires the Commission to list any current or ongoing 
legislatively mandated public policy programs for which eligible customers are required to pay 
costs, fees, charges, or rates pursuant to subsection 8 of NRS 704B.310. Those costs, fees, charges 
or rates which are not listed will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Accordingly, the list of 
Page 17 of 385 
Page 18 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 19=====
 
 
 
current legislatively mandated public policy programs from which eligible customers are required 
to pay costs, fees, charges or rates approved by the Commission in Docket No. 21-06001 are as 
follows: 
• Renewable Energy Program Rate (REPR) 
• Temporary Renewable Energy Development Program Rate (TRED) 
• Universal Energy Charge (UEC) 
• Net Energy Metering 
• Energy Efficiency and Conservation Programs (EE) 
• Expanded Solar Access Program (ESAP) 
• Natural Disaster Protection Plan (NDPP) 
• Transportation Electrification Plan 
• Economic Recovery Transportation Electrification Plan 
• Economic Development Rate Rider; and 
• R-BTER. 
Section VI of the Technical Appendix LF-1 provides information on the development of these rates 
for the three-year transition period. 
The results of the calculations demonstrate that Nevada Power customers choosing to exit the 
system will pay the Net Deferential Energy Rate of $0.04165 per kWh during their applicable three￾year transition period which will be partially offset by the $-0.00015 per kWh variable O&M costs 
credit. In addition, such customers will pay other costs required by law including the Base Tariff 
Energy Rate for the transmission period and the then-current R-BTER rate (which currently stands 
at $0.00404 as filed in Docket No. 24-05014) and will be updated quarterly. 
Page 19 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 20=====
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2 - MARKET FUNDAMENTALS 
A. POWER FUNDAMENTALS 
Regional Profile. The Companies are members of the Western Electricity Coordinating Council 
(“WECC”). WECC is the Regional Entity (“RE”) responsible for compliance, monitoring and 
enforcement, and oversees reliability planning and assessments. In addition, WECC provides an 
environment for the development of Reliability Standards and the coordination of the operating 
and planning activities of its members as set forth in the WECC bylaws. There are six REs given 
authority by the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (“NERC”) and the Federal 
Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”). Of those six entities, WECC oversees the largest and 
most geographically diverse region, known as the Western Interconnection (“WI”). WECC’s 
footprint extends from Canada to Mexico and includes the provinces of Alberta and British 
Columbia, the northern portion of Baja California, Mexico, and all or portions of the 14 Western 
states between.
1 Figure MF-1 depicts the various NERC regions and sub-regions, including the 
WECC. 
In order to conduct NERC reliability assessments, NERC further divides the REs into 20 
assessment areas, also shown in Figure MF-1 below. This level of granularity allows NERC to 
better evaluate resource adequacy and ensure deliverability constraints between and among 
assessment areas are accounted for. 
The WECC assessment area is divided into five sub-regions: California/Mexico (“CA/MX”), 
Northwest (“NW”), Alberta (“AB”), British Columbia (“BC”), and the Southwest (“SW”). NW 
area includes Colorado, Idaho, Montana, Oregon, Utah, Washington, Wyoming and parts of 
California, Nebraska, Nevada, and South Dakota. The Companies reside in the NW sub-region. 
These subregional divisions are used for this assessment as they are structured around reserve 
sharing groups that have similar annual demand patterns and similar operating practices. 
1 Western Electric Coordinating Council, About WECC, available at https://www.wecc.org/Pages/AboutWECC.aspx. 
Page 20 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 21=====
 
FIGURE MF-1 
NERC REGIONS AND SUB-REGIONS 
Figure MF-2 shows the capacity composition in the NW sub-region and the prevalence of gas￾fired and hydroelectric generation.2 
FIGURE MF-2 
WECC-NW CAPACITY BY FUEL TYPE 
2 North American Electric Reliability Corporation, 2023 Long-Term Reliability Assessment, Dec. 2023, available at 
https://www.nerc.com/pa/RAPA/ra/Reliability%20Assessments%20DL/NERC_LTRA_2023.pdf. 
Page 21 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 22=====
 
 
 
 
 
 
Energy Imbalance Market (“EIM”). 
The California Independent System Operator’s (“CAISO”) EIM is a real-time energy market, the 
first of its kind in the western United States. The EIM’s advanced market system automatically 
finds low-cost energy to serve real-time consumer demand across the west. Since its launch, the 
EIM has enhanced grid reliability and generated cost savings for its participants. In addition to its 
economic advantages, the EIM improves the integration of renewable energy, leading to a cleaner, 
“greener” grid.3 The EIM began financially binding operation on November 1, 2014, by optimizing 
resources across the CAISO and PacifiCorp Balancing Authority Areas (“BAAs”). NV Energy 
began participating in December 2015. The EIM uses a sophisticated system to automatically 
balance demand every five minutes with the lowest cost energy available across the combined grid. 
The first quarter 2024 EIM Benefits Report published by the CAISO estimates that the EIM has 
yielded more than $5.05 billion in total benefits for all participants since the market was launched 
in 2014. The measured benefits of participation in the EIM include cost savings, increased 
integration of renewable energy, and improved operational efficiencies including the reduction of 
the need for real-time flexible reserves. The estimated gross economic benefits for the Companies 
have been $22.46 million out of total $396.82 million in the last quarter of 2023.
4 Sharing 
resources across a larger geographic area reduces greenhouse gas emissions by utilizing renewable 
generation that otherwise would have been turned off. A map of the active and pending EIM 
participants is provided in Figure MF-3. 
Participants 
• BHE Montana – entry 2026 
• Avangrid – entered 2023 
• El Paso Electric – entered 2023 
• WAPA Desert Southwest Region – entered 2023 
• Bonneville Power Administration – entered 2022 
• Tucson Electric Power – entered 2022 
• Avista – entered 2022 
• Tacoma Power – entered 2022 
• NorthWestern Energy – entered 2021 
• Los Angeles Department of Water & Power – entered 2021 
• Public Service Company of New Mexico – entered 2021 
• Turlock Irrigation District – entered 2021 
• Salt River Project – entered 2020 
3 Western Energy Imbalance Market, About Page, available at 
https://www.westerneim.com/Pages/About/default.aspx. 4 Western Energy Imbalance Market, Benefits Report Fourth Quarter 2023, Jan. 31, 2024, available at 
https://www.westerneim.com/Documents/iso-western-energy-imbalance-market-benefits-report-q4-2023.pdf. 
Page 22 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 23=====
• Seattle City Light – entered 2020 
• Balancing Authority of Northern California – entered 2019 
• Idaho Power Company – entered 2018 
• Powerex – entered 2018 
• Portland General Electric – entered 2017 
• Puget Sound – entered 2016 
• Arizona Public Service – entered 2016 
• NV Energy – entered 2015 
• PacifiCorp – entered 2014 
• California ISO – entered 2014 
Page 23 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 24=====
FIGURE MF-3 
WESTERN EIM ACTIVE PARTICIPANTS 
Page 24 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 25=====
 
 
 
 
 
 
Resource Adequacy 
To ensure reliability during the transition to greater reliance on renewable resources, emerging 
resource and energy adequacy issues must be addressed. Planning for long-term resource adequacy 
is becoming increasingly complex with a resource mix that is more unpredictable and less energy 
assured. To evaluate the projected resource adequacy (generation resource reserve margins), 
NERC prepares the Long-Term Reliability Assessment (“LTRA”) - an annual assessment of 
anticipated resource reserve margins. 
Planning Reserve Margins (Anticipated Reserve Margin or “ARM” 5 and Prospective Reserve 
Margin or “PRM” 6
) are calculated and reported for each of the WECC sub-regions and provide 
an indication of the ability of those sub-regions to meet their load requirements with internal 
generation and imports from other sub-regions or zones under the specified conditions. Planning 
Reserve Margins (anticipated or prospective) are calculated by finding the difference between the 
amount of projected on-peak capacity and the forecasted peak demand and then dividing this 
difference by the forecasted peak demand. 
NERC assesses resource adequacy by evaluating each assessment area’s planning reserve margins 
relative to its Reference Margin Level7 (“RML”) - a “target” or requirement based on traditional 
capacity planning criteria. The projected resource capacity used in the evaluations is reduced by 
known operating limitations (e.g., fuel availability, transmission limitations, environmental 
limitations) and compared to the RML, which represents the desired level of risk based on a 
probability-based loss-of-load (“LOL”) analysis. 
The most recent forecast of these reserve margins from the NERC 2023 LTRA published in 
December of 2023 is shown in Figure MF-4.8 
5 This is the amount of anticipated resources (includes only Tier 1 resources) less net internal demand calculated as a 
percentage of net internal demand. 
6 This is the amount of prospective resources (includes also Tier 2 resources) less net internal demand calculated as a 
percentage of net internal demand. 
7 The RML can be determined using both deterministic and probabilistic (based on a 0.1/year loss of load study) 
approaches. In both cases, this metric is used by system planners to quantify the amount of reserve capacity in the 
system above the forecasted peak demand that is needed to ensure sufficient supply to meet peak loads. Establishing 
an RML is necessary to account for long-term factors of uncertainty involved in system planning, such as unexpected 
generator outages and extreme weather impacts that could lead to increase demand beyond what was projected in the 
50/50 load forecasted. In many assessment areas, an RML is established by a state, provincial authority, ISO/ RTO, 
or other regulatory body. In some cases, the RML is a requirement. RMLs can fluctuate over the duration of the 
assessment period or may be different for the summer and winter seasons. 
8 North American Electric Reliability Corporation, 2023 Long-Term Reliability Assessment, Dec. 2023, available at 
https://www.nerc.com/pa/RAPA/ra/Reliability%20Assessments%20DL/NERC_LTRA_2023.pdf 
Page 25 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 26=====
 
 
 
FIGURE MF-4 
WECC-NW POWER SUPPLY ASSESSMENT 
The NW sub-region is assessed as adequate by NERC until summer of 2032 and remains 
insufficient even with the additional Tier 2 resources under the PRM following 5 GW planned for 
retirement between 2029 and 2032. 
The traditional methods of assessing resource adequacy at peak load times may not accurately or 
fully reflect the ability of the new resource mix to supply energy and reserves for all hours. Energy 
limitations can exist, requiring probabilistic analysis methods to identify risks to reliability that 
result from shortfalls in the conversion of capacity to energy (energy adequacy). The new resource 
mix includes natural gas-fired generation, unprecedented proportions of nonsynchronous 
resources, including renewables and battery storage, demand response, smart and micro-grids and 
other emerging technologies. Collectively, the new resources are more susceptible to energy 
sufficiency uncertainty. 
Therefore, WECC also performs energy-based probabilistic assessments (“ProbA”) looking at all 
hours of the year. The difference between the LTRA and the ProbA results is that the ProbA 
captures the expected equivalent forced outage rate for baseload resources whereas the LTRA does 
not. Another difference is that the ProbA looks at all hours of the year, and the LTRA looks at the 
peak hour only. WECC uses the Multi-Area Variable Resource Integration Convolution model. 
The model is a convolution-based probabilistic model and is WECC’s chosen method for 
developing probability metrics used for assessing demand and variable resource availability in 
every hour. For resources, WECC uses the 3rd to 97th percentiles of hourly availability. Looking 
at all hours of the year and counting existing Tier 1 and Tier 2 resources, WECC-NW shows 28 
potential loss-of-load hours (“LOLH”) in 2026, which falls to 15 hours at risk when Tier 3 
resources are considered. The most recent summary of Probabilistic assessments is presented in 
Figure MF-5. 
Page 26 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 27=====
FIGURE MF-5 
WECC-NW SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS 
NW’s probabilistic assessment results continue to indicate risk of energy or capacity shortfall. 
Like CA/MX, and SW, the NW is projected to be at risk of resource shortfalls during extreme 
summer weather conditions after 2024. Although the assessment areas are projected to have 
sufficient capacity to meet forecasted peak demand throughout this assessment period, 
dispatchable generation declines as generators retire in 2026 and later. The resulting resource mix 
is more variable, causing a risk of supply shortfalls during extreme summer conditions in WECC’s 
probabilistic analysis. NW and SW areas’ loss-of-load and unserved energy risks are concentrated 
in the late afternoon and early evening hours during the July–September period. Modeling shows 
that imported electricity supplies are needed in all WI assessment areas to meet forecasted demand 
during summer peak demand days, raising concerns of supplies during a wide-area heat event.
9 
Significant demand growth coupled with 19 GW of resources planned to retire from 2023 through 
2034 is also contributing to increasing loss-of-load hours over the planning period. There are 
several states in the NW renewable portfolio and carbon-free electricity targets driving the changes 
in resource portfolios in addition to a plethora of local building, transportation, and industrial 
electrification measures. 
The Companies’ BAA is included in the NW sub-region within the WECC. The BAA is integrated 
with the other sub-regions by way of transmission interconnections within the electric grid. The 
Companies routinely engage in purchase and sales transactions with neighboring utilities 
belonging to other WECC sub-regions and reserve margins in those sub-regions have the ability 
to impact operations in Nevada. Consequently, reserve margins in BAAs located in the other sub￾regions can affect operations and capacity availability in the system as well. The addition of 
variable energy resources, primarily wind and solar, and the retirement of conventional generation 
is fundamentally changing how the bulk power systems (“BPS”) are planned and operated. 
9 North American Electric Reliability Corporation, 2023 Long-Term Reliability Assessment, Dec. 2023, available at 
https://www.nerc.com/pa/RAPA/ra/Reliability%20Assessments%20DL/NERC_LTRA_2023.pdf 
Page 27 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 28=====
 
 
 
 
 
 
Generation in NW 
As mentioned above, there are 19 GW of resources planned to retire from 2023 through 2034. This 
includes 128 MW of biomass, 8 GW of coal, more than 6 GW of natural gas, and 6 MW of 
petroleum. There are several states in the NW with renewable portfolio and carbon-free electricity 
targets that are driving the changes in resource portfolios. These include Montana (15 percent 
2015-19), Nevada (50 percent by 2030), Oregon (35 percent by 2030), and Washington state 
(greenhouse gases neutral with limited offsets by 2030). Many balancing areas reported supply 
chain risks in NW. Supply chain issues are resulting in longer lead times for parts and equipment, 
delaying resource restoration after forced outages. The impact has project schedules being 
extended to account for the procurement issues. Power circuit breaker lead times were being 
continually delayed. These issues are affecting all resources, both new facilities and updates to 
existing facilities. It is challenging to prioritize and schedule outages and decisions between 
stacking versus shifting. The supply chain issues are expected to contribute to deviations from 
resource plans in the near term. For instance, solar PV panel supply chain issues have indefinitely 
postponed the incorporation of a new power supply resource that had been planned for January 
2024. Additionally, coal availability declined, and prices rose due to increased demand spurred by 
high natural gas prices and weather events. Those issues, combined with transportation constraints, 
resulted in lower availability. Supply chain issues limited coal inventory during peak hours of the 
day. This resulted in a new strategy for how units are scheduled on a day-ahead basis and how 
power is purchased in the real time markets. 
Energy Storage. The NW is planning significant increases in BESS, including 425 MW in 2023, 
680 MW in 2024, and another 1,130 MW through 2030. Existing BESS capacity is currently 172 
MW. 
Transmission 
Four 500 kV and higher planned projects are in NW. Idaho Power’s new 300-mile Boardman-to￾Hemingway 500 kV line, originally proposed in 2007 and projected to be in-service in 2013, has 
cleared its major regulatory requirements and should break ground this year or in 2024 and be 
energized as early as 2026. The balancing areas in NW report supply chain delays to replace, 
upgrade, and expand transmission equipment, which has delayed project schedules. For example, 
transformer lead times reached three years, breaker lead times were 85 weeks, or over a year and 
a half, and instrument transformers and other items were also experiencing much longer lead times, 
causing significant delays to project schedules. One key transmission risk is unusual outages 
scheduled during peak summer seasons that limit generation on baseloads, which can ultimately 
impact reliability. 
Page 28 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 29=====
 
Regional Market Development 
FERC approved the Western Resource Adequacy Program10 (“WRAP”) tariff in February 2023. 
The Companies continue to participate in the transitional non-binding phase as an active member 
as the WRAP further develops into a binding phase. There are currently 22 entities, with the recent 
addition of Public Service Company of New Mexico, Seattle City Light, and Snohomish Public 
Utility District that are participating in the program, which makes the total WRAP footprint more 
than 58,000 MW. The first binding season has been pushed back from summer 2025 to summer 
2027, due to a lack of participation, and the Companies have pushed the first elected binding season 
to the winter 2027/2028 season, which will allow the Companies additional time to continue to 
add resources in-order to pass the forward-showing requirement for the summer 2028 season.
 The Western Power Pool and Southwest Power Pool (“SPP”) continue to develop many business 
practices that fill in the details of the WRAP in preparation for the first binding season. Regional 
resource adequacy is important for every entity in the West, including NV Energy. Historically, 
every entity has planned only for itself with many entities relying on the market (i.e., imports) to 
meet some of their load requirements. This is one of the major contributing factors to the resource 
adequacy issues that have presented themselves over the past several summers. The WRAP is the 
first regional reliability planning and compliance program in the history of the West. It will deliver 
a region-wide approach for assessing and addressing resource adequacy and provide an important 
step forward for reliability in the region. With the majority of entities in the West now planning to 
participate in the WRAP, every utility will be required to be resource sufficient, thus increasing 
resource adequacy for the region as a whole. The Companies have been an active participant in the 
development of the two day-ahead market options in the West and have worked with other utilities 
on several studies evaluating potential benefits associated with the different market designs and 
possible footprints. 
Two day-ahead markets were under consideration by the Companies: CAISO’s Expanded Day￾Ahead Market (“EDAM”) and SPP’s Markets+. The decision to join a day-ahead market is a 
significant event that will require quantitative and qualitative showings in a future filing, and while 
it is not impossible to exit a market, it is far better to get the decision correct the first time. It is for 
that reason the Companies have taken a methodical approach and performed due diligence on both 
day-ahead market options. 
Based on a holistic view of these qualitative and quantitative factors, the Companies intend to 
request authorization from the Commission to participate in the CAISO’s EDAM. As the second 
participant in the Western Energy Imbalance Market (“WEIM”), the Companies have experienced 
significant economic, reliability, and environmental benefits. Having developed a market that 
10 Western Power Pool, Western Resource Adequacy Program, available at 
https://www.westernpowerpool.org/about/programs/western-resource-adequacy-program. 
Page 29 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 30=====
 
 
 
includes more than 80 percent of load in the WECC, NV Energy would hope to preserve as much 
of that size and diversity as possible while expanding the scope of the organized market services. 
Critical to NV Energy’s decision is the expected EDAM footprint. The anticipated participation 
by CAISO, PacifiCorp, the Balancing Authority of Northern California, Los Angeles Department 
of Water and Power, Portland General Electric, and Idaho Power, provides a significant degree of 
interconnectivity and supports a diversity of resources. Moreover, the approval of the SWIP-North 
transmission by CAISO and Idaho Power will only enhance the transfer capacity of the existing 
ON Line transmission line in Nevada, bringing even greater benefits to all EDAM participants. 
B. NATURAL GAS FUNDAMENTALS 
As North American power markets continue to transition to cleaner energy sources (e.g., natural 
gas and renewables), natural gas will be the driving determinant of market power prices as well. 
Natural gas is widely considered to be a critical energy source for the future, with fossil fuels 
remaining the dominant source of energy powering the world economy. In particular, the 
abundance of natural gas, coupled with its relative environmental attributes and multiple 
applications across all sectors, means that it will continue to play an important role in meeting 
demand for energy in the United States. 
Market fundamentals indicate the availability and reliability of physical gas supplies to be adequate 
for satisfying natural gas demand for the foreseeable future. Prices for gas will fluctuate depending 
upon demand (often weather-related), economics of drilling, and finally federal and state 
decarbonization efforts. On a short-term basis, demand for natural gas has traditionally been 
seasonal. As a general matter, demand is highest during the winter, the primary driver being 
residential and commercial heating. Natural gas in storage typically declines in the winter as it is 
consumed during peak usage, then is injected back into storage in the spring and summer months 
in order to rebuild storage levels for the next winter’s drawdown. Besides weather, the general 
state of the economy can have a considerable effect on the demand for natural gas in the short 
term, particularly for industrial consumers. When the economy is expanding, output from 
industrial sectors generally increases at a similar rate. When the economy is in recession, output 
from industrial sectors drops. 
The Companies currently purchase most of the natural gas supply burned in their power plants 
from the Western Canadian Sedimentary Basin in Alberta and British Columbia, Canada. The 
Companies also access natural gas supplies from the Rockies region, principally the states of 
Wyoming, Colorado, and Utah. 
Natural gas production. Most natural gas production in the United States comes from three 
regions: the Permian, the Haynesville, and Appalachia. In 2024, most production growth in the 
Companies’ forecast comes from the Permian region in Texas and New Mexico, where most 
natural gas production is associated natural gas meaning producers’ oil-drilling activities in the 
Page 30 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 31=====
 
 
 
 
region determine natural gas production levels. Production in the Haynesville region is mostly flat 
in 2024 because of low natural gas prices and a relatively low rig count. Haynesville production is 
forecasted to increase in 2025 because of its proximity to new liquefied natural gas (“LNG”) export 
facilities.The U.S. Energy Information Administration (“EIA”) expects production in the 
Appalachian Basin to be mostly flat in 2024 as natural gas pipeline capacity constraints restrain 
production. 
EIA forecast U.S. dry natural gas production to fall to 103 Bcf/d by December 2024 in forecast 
and then averages 104 Bcf/d in 2025.11 EIA does not expect that natural gas production will return 
to its December 2023 record of 106 Bcf/d during the forecast period. Although production declines 
slightly through the rest of 2024 because of low natural gas prices and a relatively stable rig count, 
production begins to increase in early 2025, mostly driven by natural gas prices that average almost 
$3/MMBtu in the forecast for next year, as well as increased demand for liquefied natural gas 
(LNG) exports. 
The continued strength in U.S. natural gas production will be key in determining how long the 
current inventory surplus to the five-year average and low prices persist. Because of low natural 
gas prices some producers have announced curtailments in production or reductions in capital 
expenditures toward natural gas-directed activities in 2024. How soon curtailments affect the 
market is highly uncertain, and price forecast is based on relatively high production entering the 
shoulder season when natural gas demand is lower than other times of the year. However, if there 
is less production, the summer of 2024 months are warmer than normal, and natural gas 
consumption for electric power generation increases more than forecasted, then inventories could 
fall below forecast and prices could be higher. 
11 U.S. Energy Information Administration, Short-Term Energy Outlook, Mar. 2024, available at 
https://www.eia.gov/outlooks/steo/archives/mar24.pdf. 
Page 31 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 32=====
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FIGURE MF-6 
U.S. NATURAL GAS PRODUCTION 
Natural gas trade. EIA12 expects U.S. LNG exports to average 12 Bcf/d in 2024, a 2 percent 
increase compared with last year. In 2025, LNG exports increase by an additional 2 Bcf/d (18 
percent) because three of the five LNG export projects currently under construction are expected 
to start operations and ramp up to full production. EIA forecasts that U.S. LNG export facilities 
will run at similar utilization rates as in 2023, adjusted for seasonality and annual maintenance on 
liquefaction trains. In April and May 2024, LNG exports are expected to decline compared with 
April and May 2023 because two of the three trains at the Freeport LNG export facility are 
undergoing annual maintenance, coinciding with lower global LNG demand in importing countries 
during the shoulder season. Later in 2024, Plaquemines LNG Phase I and Corpus Christi Stage 3 
are to begin LNG production and load first cargoes by the end of the year. In 2025, the developers 
of the Golden Pass LNG plan to place the first two trains of this new three-train LNG export facility 
in service. 
U.S. natural gas exports by pipeline are expected to grow by almost 1 Bcf/d over the forecast 
period, mainly because of increased natural gas exports to Mexico. Several pipelines in Mexico – 
Tula-Villa de Reyes, Tuxpan‒Tula, and Cuxtal Phase II connecting to the Energía Mayakan 
pipeline on the Yucatán Peninsula – are expected to reach full service in 2024‒25. These pipelines
started partial service in 2022–23 but are not yet fully operational. In addition, flows via the Sur 
12 U.S. Energy Information Administration, Short-Term Energy Outlook, Apr. 2024, available at 
https://www.eia.gov/outlooks/steo/archives/apr24.pdf. 
Page 32 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 33=====
 
 
 
 
 
de Texas-Tuxpan underwater pipeline are likely to increase slightly in 2024, delivering natural gas 
from the United States to Mexico’s first LNG export project: Fast LNG Altamira. 
Natural gas prices. EIA in its February outlook (“In Depth Analysis” published in February 2024) 
expects13 the U.S. benchmark Henry Hub natural gas spot price to average higher in 2024 and 
2025 than in 2023, but to remain lower than $3.00 per million British thermal units (MMBtu). 
Natural gas prices will increase as demand for natural gas grows faster than supply in 2024. In 
2022 and 2023, increases in natural gas supply (domestic natural gas production and imports) 
exceeded the increases in natural gas demand (domestic consumption and exports). In 2024, the 
reverse is expected be true: demand increases by 2.3 Bcf/d, and supply remains relatively flat. In 
2025, EIA expects supply and demand to grow at similar rates, although inventories will build 
because supply will still slightly exceed demand. Historical and forecasted natural gas Henry Hub 
monthly average spot prices for period 2020–2025 are ilustrated in Figure MF-7. 
FIGURE MF-7 
HENRY HUB MONTHLY SPOT PRICES 
Natural gas demand. EIA expects natural gas consumption to grow in all sectors in 2024 except 
the industrial sector, where the consumption is expected to decrease slightly. Sectoral changes in 
natural gas consumption depend mostly on the weather. Natural gas-fired power plants provide 
about 40 percent of U.S. electricity generation annually, so electricity demand from heating and 
air-conditioning equipment influences how much natural gas the electric power sector consumes. 
13 U.S. Energy Information Administration, What is the outlook for the natural gas spot price in 2024 and 2025?, 
Feb. 12, 2024, available at https://www.eia.gov/todayinenergy/detail.php?id=61385. 
Page 33 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 34=====
 
 
 
It is expected about 11 percent more U.S. natural gas consumption for electricity in 2024 than the 
previous five-year average. 
In the residential and commercial sectors, colder temperatures in the winter also affect direct 
natural gas consumption by heating equipment. EIA expects combined consumption in the 
residential and commercial sectors to be 5 percent higher in 2024 than in 2023 because January 
2023 and December 2023 had warmer-than-average temperatures, leading to relatively low 
consumption of natural gas for space heating. 14 
The mix of energy sources and technologies used to generate electricity also affects natural gas 
consumption in the electric power sector. As developers add more generating capacity from solar￾and wind-powered generators, those generators’ incremental generation may reduce the need to 
dispatch natural gas-fired power plants. Changes in the timing and magnitude of new solar and 
wind capacity would also affect forecast for natural gas consumption in the electric power sector. 
Forecast annual change in U.S. natural gas supply and demand for 2023-2025 is presented in 
Figure MF 8 below. 
FIGURE MF-8 
ANNUAL CHANGE IN NATURAL GAS SUPPLY AND DEMAND 
14 U.S. Energy Information Administration, What is the outlook for the natural gas spot price in 2024 and 2025?, 
Feb. 12, 2024, available at https://www.eia.gov/todayinenergy/detail.php?id=61385. 
Page 34 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 35=====
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Natural gas storage. EIA estimates15 that U.S. natural gas storage inventories were 39 percent 
higher at the end of the withdrawal season (November–March) than the five-year (2019–2023) 
average. The United States started the winter heating season with a 5 percent surplus to the five￾year average. The surplus at the start of winter and a mild winter that resulted in below-average 
natural gas consumption in the residential and commercial sectors led to the large storage inventory 
surplus at the end of March. The large storage surplus contributed to low natural gas prices 
throughout the first quarter of 2024. From April through October this year, EIA forecasts less 
natural gas will be injected into storage than is typical, largely because the expectation is that the 
United States will produce less natural gas on average in second quarter and third quarter of 2024 
compared with first quarter. Despite lower production, it is forecasted that the U.S. will end the 
injection season with 4,120 Bcf of natural gas in storage, 10 percent more than the five-year 
average and the most on record. Working gas storage levels for the United States in 2019–2023 
and so far in 2024 with the 2025 forecast are shown in Figure MF-9. 
15U.S. Energy Information Administration, Short-Term Energy Outlook, Apr. 2024, available at 
https://www.eia.gov/outlooks/steo/archives/apr24.pdf. 
Page 35 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 36=====
 
 
FIGURE MF-9 
U.S. NATURAL GAS STORAGE 
Movement in natural gas prices can be partly attributable to natural gas storage levels. Relative 
shortages or excesses of storage capacity during heavy load periods (typically November through 
March) can either create or hinder the daily volatility of natural gas prices. The consuming West 
region has the smallest share of gas storage, both in terms of the number of sites, as well as gas 
capacity/deliverability. 
Arizona, Idaho and Nevada do not have any underground storage sites within their borders. 
Approximately 63 percent of total capacity in the West is located in California and Montana. 
Moreover, the bulk of the region’s working gas capacity is located in California’s 14 underground 
natural gas storage sites, seven of which are owned by the two principal gas distributors in the 
State: Southern California Edison (“SoCal”) and Pacific Gas & Electric (“PG&E”). Most of their 
storage capacity is used for system balancing and as a way of maintaining a steady and high 
utilization of contracted pipeline capacity from Canada, the Rocky Mountains, and the Southwest. 
The five independent storage facilities in California (not owned by either SoCal or PG&E) are 
used primarily as depositories for gas produced within the State that is not immediately marketable. 
In addition, these sites are connected to (and deliver their withdrawals to) the SoCal and/or PG&E 
systems. Storage facilities in Washington and Oregon are used primarily to provide seasonal 
Page 36 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 37=====
backup to several local distribution companies located in the Northwest and are crucial in 
maintaining their operational flexibility and system integrity. These storage facilities are also used 
by some Canadian shippers/customers to support their marketing and operational needs. The 
import/export facilities of the Northwest Pipeline Company at Sumas, Washington, are used to 
move natural gas in either direction to storage, depending on marketing conditions. 
Page 37 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 38=====
 
 
 
 
SECTION 3. FUEL AND PURCHASED POWER PRICE FORECASTS 
Forecasts of fuel and purchased power prices are essential inputs to an IRP analysis. Robust 
production cost analysis conducted using PLEXOS tests the sensitivity of results against different 
fuel and purchased price assumptions. 
The Companies have developed sensitivity studies around low, base, and high fuel prices, together 
with low, base and high purchased power prices, including and excluding the impacts of carbon 
regulation. As described in subsection H, the assessment of federal climate change policy, also 
called carbon regulation policy, in this IRP is influenced largely by the 2022 Inflation Reduction 
Act (“IRA”). A total of six separate price forecast scenarios were developed to determine the 
impacts of both carbon regulation policy and fuel/purchased power price levels on production costs 
and resource options. Three price forecast scenarios—base, high and low fuel and purchased power 
prices were prepared. These forecast scenarios were used in preparing the analysis presented in 
this IRP. Also, two alternative cases were prepared assuming base fuel and purchased power prices 
but imposing various levels of carbon regulation impact, mid CO2 and high CO2 (low CO2 case is 
equal to no CO2 case). All five cases are presented in Figure PF-1. 
FIGURE PF-1 
PRICE FORECAST SENSITIVITY SCENARIOS 
Carbon Regulation Policy 
Fuel Price Case 
IRA 
(Mid CO2) 
Base Fuel Prices 
High Fuel Prices 
Low Fuel Prices 
IRA 
(High CO2) 
Base Fuel Prices 
IRA 
(Low CO2) 
Base Fuel Prices 
No Federal Policy 
(No CO2) 
Base Fuel Prices 
The methodology used to prepare the base case forecasts for power and natural gas prices relies 
upon observable market quotes in the near-term forecast years, which are gradually blended into 
long-term price forecasts obtained from an external consulting firm specializing in market 
fundamentals and fundamental price forecasting. The price forecast curves for power, natural gas, 
and coal are important to the economic evaluation of alternative electric resource plans. For 
example, higher natural gas prices, which are a variable expense in operating fossil fuel-fired 
plants, can increase the attractiveness of renewable energy options, which have no variable 
operating fuel expense but potentially higher up-front plant investment costs to construct on a 
dollars per kW basis. 
Page 38 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 39=====
 
 
 
 
Market quotes used for short-term forecast. Market quotes consist of observed trades in the 
relevant trading hubs: for natural gas, the Henry Hub, Alberta NOVA Inventory Transfer (“AB￾NIT” or “AECO”), Sumas, Northwest Pipeline Rockies (“Rockies”), Malin, and South California 
Border (“SoCal”); and for power, the Mead and the Palo Verde trading hubs. The source of market 
quotes is Argus Media (“Argus”) for natural gas prices and for western regional power prices. The 
market quotes for the IRP forecast were prepared as an average of settlement prices for a 20-day 
trading period from December 1, 2023, through December 31, 2023. 
Fundamental (long-term) forecast. The fundamental forecasts of power and natural gas prices are 
provided through a subscription service with Wood Mackenzie, (“WoodMac”), a global energy, 
metals and mining consultancy service. WoodMac maintains an international reputation for 
supplying comprehensive data, written analysis and consultancy advice. The Companies perform 
detailed fundamental modeling of regional electric and natural gas systems, taking into account 
structural supply-demand price dynamics. For internal consistency, WoodMac’s projections of 
natural gas and power prices are taken from a single integrated forecast, the long-term outlook 
(Decarbonization Headwinds Update, released in July of 2023.) 
A. Base Gas Price Forecast 
The monthly gas price forecast by regional hub begins with the 20-day average of market quotes 
in the near-term forecast months, January 2025 through March 2027. For the intermediate-term 
months, April 2027 through March 2029, a blending process is used to gradually transition from 
the 20-day average quotes to the long-term fundamental natural gas price forecast from 
WoodMac.1 The long-term fundamental forecast is used exclusively from April 2029 through 
December 2050. The base fuel-Mid CO2 annual natural gas price forecast for the Rockies, Malin, 
AECO and SoCal hubs is shown in Figure PF-2. 
1 Blending of market quotes and the fundamental forecast occurs across four gas seasons, or 24 months (April 
2027 through March 2029), with a weighting of the fundamental forecast increasing by 4 percent per month. 
Page 39 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 40=====
REDACTED PUBLIC VERSION
FIGURE PF-2 (REDACTED) 
ANNUAL AVERAGE GAS PRICE FORECAST 
(BASE FUEL-MID CO2) 
The associated monthly prices and additional trading hubs are provided in Technical Appendix 
FPP-1. 
Page 40 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 41=====
 
 
 
B. Base Market Implied Heat Rate Forecast 
The economic evaluation of generation alternatives in this IRP is based on a production cost 
software model that dispatches the Companies’ portfolio of generation and contracted resources 
(subject to unit operating constraints) against an economic opportunity to purchase power in the 
regional market at wholesale market prices. An essential input to this analysis is the wholesale 
power price forecast, which is prepared by multiplying the gas price forecast described above and 
a forecast of market implied heat rates (“MIHR”) at nearby trading hubs for both on-peak and off￾peak periods. The multiplication of monthly gas prices (in dollars per million British thermal units 
(“MMBtu”)) with monthly on-peak and off-peak market heat rates (in MMBtu per MWh) yields a 
monthly forecast of on-peak and off-peak power prices (in dollars per MWh). 
Consistent with the approach used in prior IRPs and IRP amendments, the first part of the MIHR 
curve, through March 2027, is derived using the ratio of the 20-day average power price quotes 
and the 20-day average forward gas prices. The second part of the curve, from April 2027 to March 
2029, reflects a blend of heat rates based on market quotes and heat rates based on the fundamental 
forecast. In the blending process, pure quotes receive more weighting in the initial months of the 
forecast blending period, while the fundamental-based heat rates receive more weighting towards 
the end of the 24-month blending period. The third part of the curve, from April 2029 through 
December 2050, is derived entirely from the fundamental-based curve from WoodMac. Figure PF￾3 provides the base case forecast (Base Fuel-Mid CO2) of average MIHRs for delivered energy to 
Nevada at the Mead trading hub, the main import hub for the Companies.
2 Note that the MIHR 
declines as renewable penetration increases. Forecasts of average MIHRs for Mead and other 
relevant trading hubs are provided on a monthly basis in Technical Appendix FPP-1. 
Page 41 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 42=====
 
 
 
REDACTED PUBLIC VERSION
FIGURE PF-3 (REDACTED) 
AVERAGE MARKET IMPLIED HEAT RATE FORECAST 
(BASE FUEL-MID CO2) 
C. Base Power Price Forecast 
Once the forecast of MIHR is prepared, the hub power prices can be computed as the product of 
the MIHR (on-peak and off-peak periods) and the corresponding hub gas prices. For example, the 
Mead power price forecast was derived by multiplying the natural gas price forecast at SoCal by 
the forecast of MIHR at Mead. The forecast of monthly power prices averaged annually for Mead 
is presented in the Figure PF-4. Note that prices drop in the near term as renewable penetration 
increases, then rise later as fossil fueled plants retire and high-cost storage increases. 
Page 42 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 43=====
 
 
REDACTED PUBLIC VERSION
FIGURE PF-4 (REDACTED) 
AVERAGE ANNUAL POWER PRICE FORECAST – MEAD 
(BASE FUEL-MID CO2) 
The monthly on-peak and off-peak prices for the various trading hubs and carbon cases are 
included in Technical Appendix FPP-1. 
D. High and Low Gas Price Forecasts 
High and low gas prices. The Companies also prepared high and low sensitivities around the base 
case market price forecasts. An assumption of plus-and-minus one standard deviation around the 
base gas price forecast was computed for the high and low cases. Market quotes of implied 
volatilities from at-the-money call options from December 2023 were used to calculate the 
volatility of natural gas futures for the period from January 2025 to December 2050. These 
volatilities were used to calculate the high and low natural gas prices. 
Page 43 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 44=====
REDACTED PUBLIC VERSION
The base, high and low-price projections for Rockies natural gas and Alberta natural gas that result 
from applying the volatility curve are illustrated in Figures PF-5 and PF-6. 
FIGURE PF-5 (REDACTED) 
BASE, HIGH AND LOW GAS PRICE FORECAST – ROCKIES 
Page 44 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 45=====
 
 
 
 
 
REDACTED PUBLIC VERSION
FIGURE PF-6 (REDACTED) 
BASE, HIGH AND LOW GAS PRICE FORECAST – ALBERTA (AECO) 
E. High and Low Power Prices 
Once the high and low gas price trajectories are computed, the Companies adjust the base case 
power price forecasts for Mead and northern Nevada delivered power. For on-peak and off-peak 
periods, the high and low power prices are calculated by first multiplying the high and low gas 
prices with a heat rate of 7,146 Btu/kWh.3 The product of this calculation is added to the monthly 
spark spreads from the base case price forecast.4 This methodology provides a reasonable estimate 
3 7,146 Btu/kWh heat rate represents average operating heath rate of natural gas combined-cycle generator. U.S. 
Energy Information Administration, Most combined-cycle power plants employ two combustion turbines with 
one steam turbine, Apr. 25, 2022, available at https://www.eia.gov/todayinenergy/detail.php?id=52158. 4 Note that the high and low power price forecast cases incorporate market variability around fuel prices only (i.e., 
these sensitivity forecasts hold constant the spark spread embedded in the base case forecast). The spark spread is 
the difference between the price received by a generator for electricity produced and the cost of the natural gas 
Page 45 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 46=====
REDACTED PUBLIC VERSION
for market prices where natural gas-fired generation is setting market clearing prices, such as in 
Nevada. 
The average annual base, high and low average power prices at Mead trading hub (the main power 
import hub for the Companies) are graphed in Figure PF-7. The on-peak, off-peak and average 
power prices on a monthly basis for Mead and other relevant hubs are provided in Technical 
Appendix FPP-1. 
FIGURE PF-7 (REDACTED) 
BASE, HIGH, LOW POWER PRICE FORECAST – (MEAD AVERAGE) 
used to produce that electricity; it is also an estimation of the value of energy in wholesale markets, reflective of 
the comparative balance between power supplies and electricity demand. 
Page 46 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 47=====
 
F. Capacity Price Forecast for Market Purchases 
The Companies have included a long-term capacity price forecast to supplement the regional 
power price forecast from WoodMac. The regional price forecast is used as an input to PLEXOS 
for determining economic dispatch of market purchases against internal generation, the capacity 
price forecast (dollars per kW-year) is incorporated in the production cost assessment as a fixed 
cost to estimate the total costs associated with the Companies’ open capacity position. 
WoodMac’s regional power price forecast represents spot firm energy prices; the energy prices do 
not include the full cost of new capacity that would be required to ensure resource adequacy over 
the forecast period. To ensure resource adequacy across the forecast horizon, WoodMac develops 
estimates of the levelized cost of new entry (“CONE”) for combined cycle and combustion turbine 
generation throughout the WECC. The CONE is an estimate of the annual fixed costs associated 
with owning and operating a new generating facility (i.e., exclusive of variable costs such as fuel 
and emissions) and is used to compute the long-term capacity price forecast. WoodMac calculates 
the annual capacity prices (in dollars per kW-year) based on the net CONE, or the levelized cost 
of new entry net of the revenues from energy and ancillary services. The WoodMac fundamental 
forecast includes resource expansion modeling that incorporates the impact of unit retirements and 
resource additions. In preparation of this IRP, the Companies have incorporated a blend of 
WoodMac’s capacity price forecasts for Northwest Power Pool (“NWPP”), Southwest Reserve 
Sharing Group (“SRSG”) and California to approximate the mix of purchased power. The annual 
capacity prices are shown in Figure PF-8. 
Page 47 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 48=====
 
REDACTED PUBLIC VERSION
FIGURE PF-8 
PROJECTED CAPACITY PRICES (REDACTED) 
The capacity values serve as a proxy for the potential cost associated with carrying open positions 
(i.e., until the positions are closed with firm products). The capacity adder is representative of 
potential additional costs that may be incurred, either in short-term power markets subject to price 
spikes under deficit market conditions, or as a proxy for the fixed costs of another new or existing 
power resource. 
G. Coal Price Forecast 
The price estimate of coal delivered to the Companies’ coal-fired generating units at North Valmy 
for 2025 was based upon the fully executed contracts for 2024 and it is expected to be close to 
4.27 $/MMBTU. 
Page 48 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 49=====
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
H. Price Forecasts and Modeling of Potential Carbon Costs 
The Companies have prepared fossil fuel price forecasts to evaluate the production cost impacts 
of proposed federal policy regarding carbon dioxide (“CO2”) emissions. The Companies’ base 
planning assumption includes the Mid-CO2 Policy scenario developed by NERA Economic 
Consulting (“NERA”) that includes the effects of this scenario on fossil fuel prices. Estimates of 
fossil fuel prices under the Low-CO2 Policy scenario and the High-CO2 Policy scenario were also 
prepared. 
Federal carbon policy scenarios 
NERA had for many years assumed that future federal climate policy will consist of a national 
cap-and-trade program for carbon dioxide emissions (in some cases only for the electric utility 
sector). This assumption was motivated initially by passage by the House in 2009 of a national 
cap-and-trade bill and later by the inclusion in the Clean Power Plan (“CPP”) of a potential cap￾and-trade program for electricity sector carbon dioxide emissions under regulations promulgated 
by the Obama Administration under Section 111(d) of the Clean Air Act. 
Two major climate policy developments in 2022 mean that this cap-and-trade approach is no 
longer an appropriate assumption regarding federal climate change policy. 
On June 30, 2022, the Supreme Court overturned the CPP, concluding that Section 111(d) does 
not provide EPA with the authority to regulate emissions based upon “generation shifting” such 
as would occur under a cap-and-trade program. 
In August 2022, President Biden signed the IRA that, among many other provisions, included 
major subsidies for investments in new renewable energy facilities and existing merchant nuclear 
generation, as well as other provisions affecting fossil fuel markets. Such policies do not result in 
a “price” for carbon emissions as would occur under a cap-and-trade program or a carbon tax. 
Such subsidies do have the potential to affect fossil fuel prices. 
Fuel price impacts from federal carbon policy 
As part of its support for the 2024 IRP analyses, NERA has developed estimates of the effects of 
major provisions of the IRA on fossil-fuel prices using NewERA, its proprietary electricity and 
energy model. While there are many provisions of the IRA that might affect natural gas and coal 
prices, the most significant effects are likely to be due to the tax credit subsidies provided for 
renewable and other “clean energy” sources of electricity, to the tax credits for nuclear generation 
from merchant units to various provisions affecting overall electricity demand, and to provisions 
affecting the export of liquified natural gas. NERA developed assumptions regarding the potential 
implementation of these IRA provisions and used NewERA to model effects on natural gas and 
Page 49 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 50=====
 
 
 
 
coal prices for a Mid-CO2 Policy scenario as well as for a Low-CO2 Policy scenario and a High￾CO2 Policy scenario. 
The percentage adjustors to natural gas prices under the three climate policy scenarios modeled by 
NERA are shown in Figure PF-9. 
FIGURE PF-9 
NATURAL GAS PRICE ADJUSTMENTS FOR CARBON SCENARIOS 
(HENRY HUB) 
In its regional modeling of the WECC power markets, WoodMac in July 2023 published a Long￾Term Outlook that assumes limited effects of the IRA on natural gas prices. The Companies 
applied the NERA price impacts (adjustors) to this WoodMac natural gas price forecast to create 
natural gas price forecasts under the three carbon policy scenarios for use in the PLEXOS 
generation dispatch modeling. 
More detailed discussions of the carbon policy scenarios and the NERA modeling are provided in 
the direct testimony of Dr. David Harrison and the study of environmental costs and economic 
impacts prepared by NERA, Technical Appendix ECON-9, herein referred to as “NERA Report.” 
As noted in the NERA Report, the future impacts on fossil fuel prices from future climate policies 
Page 50 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 51=====
are highly uncertain due to various factors, including those related to IRA implementation and 
fossil fuel supply and demand elasticities, among others. 
Page 51 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 52=====
LF-1 
Page 52 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 53=====
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 1 of 89
NEVADA POWER COMPANY d/b/a NV ENERGY 
SIERRA PACIFIC POWER COMPANY d/b/a NV ENERGY 
2024 JOINT INTEGRATED RESOURCE PLAN 
LOAD FORECAST – 2025-2044 
I. Table of Contents 
II. FORECAST SUMMARY..................................................................................................................... 2 
A. Comparison to Previous Forecast................................................................................................. 6 
III. MODEL ASSUMPTIONS AND DATA DEVELOPMENT ............................................................... 9 
A. Introduction .................................................................................................................................. 9 
B. Assumptions and Changes.......................................................................................................... 11 
C. Forecast Model ........................................................................................................................... 12 
Monthly SAE Model...................................................................................................................... 12 
SAE Model Specifications............................................................................................................. 13 
Hourly Average-Use Forecast Model ............................................................................................ 19 
D. MODEL INPUTS....................................................................................................................... 21 
Historical Data ...............................................................................................................................21 
Economic and Demographic Data Inputs ...................................................................................... 24 
Customer Data ...............................................................................................................................28 
Data for Weather Normalization.................................................................................................... 33 
SAE Related Inputs........................................................................................................................ 40 
Retail Price..................................................................................................................................... 40 
Adjustments for DSM Program Savings........................................................................................ 45 
System Losses................................................................................................................................ 47 
Company Use................................................................................................................................. 48 
IV. BASE FORECAST SUMMARY ....................................................................................................... 50 
A. Sales Forecast Summary............................................................................................................. 50 
B. Customer Forecast Summary...................................................................................................... 57 
C. NEM Forecast Summary ............................................................................................................ 58 
D. DSM sales reductions ................................................................................................................. 61 
E. Major Projects Sales Forecast Summary .................................................................................... 66 
F. Electric Vehicle Sales Forecast Summary.................................................................................. 68 
V. LOAD FORECAST SCENARIOS..................................................................................................... 70 
A. Low and High Load Scenarios ................................................................................................... 70 
B. Hot Summer/Cold Winter (HSCW) Scenarios........................................................................... 76 
C. One-in-Ten Transmission Forecast Scenario.............................................................................. 78 
D. Preferred Plan DSM Scenarios................................................................................................... 79 
E. Forecast excluding Eligible 704B Loads.................................................................................... 83 
VI. NRS Chapter 704B Transition Rates for 2025-2027 Action Plan Period........................................... 89 
1 
Page 53 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 54=====
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 2 of 89
II. FORECAST SUMMARY 
Table LF-1 provides a summary of the sales and peak forecasts for NV Energy, Nevada Power 
Company (“Nevada Power”) and Sierra Pacific Power Company (“Sierra “and together with 
Nevada Power, the “Companies”) over the 2014-2044 period. 
TABLE LF-1 
NV ENERGY FORECAST SUMMARY 
2 
Page 54 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 55=====
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 3 of 89
Table LF-2 provides a summary of the sales forecast by customer group for NV Energy over the 
2014-2044 period. 
TABLE LF-2 
NV ENERGY FORECAST SUMMARY BY CUSTOMER GROUP 
3 
Page 55 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 56=====
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 4 of 89
Table LF-3 provides a summary of the sales forecast by customer group for Nevada Power over 
the 2014-2044 period. 
TABLE LF-3 
NEVADA POWER FORECAST SUMMARY BY CUSTOMER GROUP 
4 
Page 56 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 57=====
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 5 of 89
Table LF-4 provides a summary of the sales forecast by customer group for Sierra in total over 
the 2014-2044 period. 
TABLE LF-4 
SIERRA FORECAST SUMMARY BY CUSTOMER GROUP 
5 
Page 57 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 58=====
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
A. Comparison to Previous Forecast 
Table LF-5 provides a summary of the sales and peak forecasts for the combined NV Energy 
system over the 2025-2044 period relative to the 2021 IRPA 3rd Forecast. 
TABLE LF-5 
NV ENERGY FORECAST COMPARISON 
Page 6 of 89
6 
Page 58 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 59=====
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Table LF-6 provides a summary of the sales and peak forecasts for Nevada Power over the 2025-
2044 period relative to the 2021 IRPA 3rd Forecast. 
TABLE LF-6 
NEVADA POWER FORECAST COMPARISON 
Page 7 of 89
7 
Page 59 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 60=====
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 8 of 89
Table LF-7 provides a summary of the sales and peak forecasts for Sierra Pacific over the 2025-
2044 period relative to the 2021 IRPA 3rd Forecast. 
TABLE LF-7 
SIERRA PACIFIC FORECAST COMPARISON 
8 
Page 60 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 61=====
 
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 9 of 89
III. MODEL ASSUMPTIONS AND DATA DEVELOPMENT 
A. Introduction 
The following section provides descriptions of all data inputs to the models used in developing the 
load forecast, per NAC § 704.922.2(b). As in past filings, the forecast is developed using a bottom￾up data-driven modelling approach. One of the major changes in this filing is that the process 
begins with hourly class load data, derived from smart-meter data, rather than monthly billing data 
as used in previous forecast updates. This modelling process is significantly less complex as there 
is no need to adjust weather data in order to match monthly billing cycle sales data. Separate 
customer and sales forecasts are developed for each of the primary customer groups. System 
energy requirements are derived by adding these separate sales forecasts and adjusting for line 
losses. 
Sales and customer counts are forecasted for each of the primary customer classes for both Nevada 
Power and Sierra. End-use forecasts for heating, cooling, and non-weather sensitivity end-uses 
(base use) are derived from the customer class forecast models and used to drive system peak 
demand. Each component is adjusted for expected decreases from DSM programs and incremental 
electric vehicle charging. All components are summed and adjusted for losses, projecting total 
system energy and peak demand for each region. The combined NV Energy system forecast is 
derived by combining the resulting Sierra and Nevada Power hourly load forecasts. Figure LF-1 
shows the general modeling framework. 
FIGURE LF-1 
General Modeling Framework 
9 
Page 61 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 62=====
 
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Following the previously approved approach, Residential, Small Commercial and Industrial 
(“Small C&I”), and Medium Commercial and Industrial (“Medium C&I”) customer counts are 
modelled at the group level. Monthly customer forecasts are estimated using linear regression 
models that relates the number of customers to applicable economic drivers (e.g. population, 
employment) and multiplied by average use per customer to derive hourly sales for each group. 
Average use projections are based on a statistically adjusted end-use (“SAE”) specification that 
relates monthly average use to monthly estimates of heating, cooling, and base-use requirements. 
Net-Energy Metering (“NEM”) customers, who have installed customer-owned generation, are 
separately forecast for this update rather than embedded as part of the larger group forecast. The 
customer counts and sales for these customers are then removed from the corresponding customer 
groups to identify the impact of the difference in sales on the overall forecast. 
Large Commercial and Industrial (“Large C&I”) sales and customer forecasts are now forecast by 
business type (e.g. Casino, Mine, Data Center, Water, General Industrial). Total Large C&I sales 
and customer forecast is derived by adding the business type sales and customer forecasts. 
Customer counts for each group are forecasted using applicable economic drivers (e.g. population, 
employment, hotel room counts) and multiplied by average use per customer to derive hourly sales 
for each group. The Large C&I sales forecasts may be also adjusted for customer-specific forecasts 
including Distribution-Only Service (“DOS”) related sales loss. As a note, DOS customer classes 
are forecasted in a similar manner, but do not affect the companies’ retail load requirements, and 
are therefore not included in the load forecast generally presented here. 
Similar to previous forecast updates, certain Large C&I customers are individually forecasted and 
added to the general Large C&I forecast. Forecasts for these customers are based on discussions 
with the Companies’ Major Account, Economic Development, and Major Projects groups, and 
customer input related to expected business activity and associated sales and demand impacts. 
Major Projects with signed Rule 9 interconnection agreements have been separately considered 
from those in the Study Phase of the process. Consistent with the historical approach of modelling 
these Major Projects, considerations have been made to reduce the amount of load expected on the 
system due to time delays and historical amounts relative to customer requested amounts. 
Separate sales forecasts are developed for lighting and irrigation customers. Street Lighting (“SL”) 
and Outdoor Lighting Service models (“OLS”) are developed separately in this update. The OLS 
sales are included in the corresponding Residential and Small C&I sales results for Nevada Power. 
Forecasts for the Sierra irrigation (“IRR”) and Public Street and Highway Lighting (“STL”) classes 
at both Companies are developed judgmentally based on recent history. 
In summary, forecast models are estimated for the following revenue classes: 
• Residential for the Companies and a separate Residential OLS model for Sierra; 
• Small C&I (excluding irrigation) and a separate Small C&I OLS model for Sierra; 
• Large C&I model, which includes existing customer forecast, Major Projects, and Standby 
classes; 
• Other/Street Lighting 
10 
Page 10 of 89
Page 62 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 63=====
 
 
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 11 of 89
Additional load adjustments are made for future Demand Side Management (“DSM”) savings and 
Electric Vehicle (“EV”)) charging loads. System energy forecast is derived by adjusting Sierra and 
Nevada Power for line losses and adding the two companies. 
B. Assumptions and Changes 
The 2024 IRP Forecast update incorporates several changes from the 2021 IRPA 3rd Forecast but 
maintains substantial portions of the same methodology. Residential and Small C&I customer 
counts follow the same method using updated Nevada population estimates to develop counts by 
customer group. The average use per customer information for these groups has been refined to 
begin with hourly class load information, rather than historical monthly billed sales. The sales 
forecast are developed by multiplying the number of customers by the average use per customer. 
Once developed, the hourly sales forecasts are weather normalized by distinct monthly coefficients 
instead of the annual regression model used in the 2021 IRPA 3rd Forecast. Once weather 
normalized, these loads are adjusted by the SAE model adjustments, discussed in more detail later, 
in order to achieve a consistent weather normalized and SAE adjusted result. 
A separate NEM customer and sales forecast has been developed for this 2024 IRP Forecast update 
to estimate the rapid growth of these customers over recent years. These customers and sales are 
removed from their larger corresponding customer groups to identify the impact of the installation 
of these customer-owned systems on system requirements. Further, the energy produced by these 
customers that is sent back to the grid is considered in overall sales reductions for the 
corresponding groups in order to reflect the current net-billing requirements. In the 2021 IRPA 3rd 
Forecast, this energy was considered as an overall system load reduction but did not impact sales 
of individual groups. 
Next, consistent with the company’s past approach, the load for Large C&I major projects are 
reduced from the customer requested amounts to account for project delays and modifications to 
customer provided estimates that typically occur. Due to the potential magnitude of several 
projects currently in the study phase of the interconnection process, the 2024 IRP Forecast 
considers these projects within the base forecast, albeit with a significantly reduced level of loads 
that are forecast to materialize over the forecast period. 
By starting with hourly load information to build the load forecast in this update, rather than 
monthly billing data, additional modifications to account for billing cycle differences are no longer 
necessary. Additionally, a separate peak forecast model is no longer required. Further detail on the 
steps included to adjust hourly information for the final sales and energy requirements are provided 
below. 
In this forecast update, the Retail Price component was specifically excluded from the SAE 
modelling efforts so that the results could individually presented. In an effort to respond to the 
Commission requirement for more detailed rate impact analyses in recent IRP amendments, the 
update for the 2024 IRP Forecast calculates the estimated load impact stemming from changes in 
price separately. The forecasted rates, detailed in the Financial Plan are used to estimate the 
potential impacts on the load forecast. The steps for this analysis, and resulting impacts, are further 
detailed below. 
Next, the Demand Response load adjustments previously included as load modifiers in the 2021 
IRPA 3rd Forecast are now considered as a resource within the Loads & Resources table. Therefore, 
11 
Page 63 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 64=====
 
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 12 of 89
these programs have been removed from the load forecast presented here for the 2024 IRP forecast. 
Further discussion on those programs are discussed in the Demand Side Plan narrative. 
C. Forecast Model 
Sales forecasts are generated for Residential and the Small and Medium C&I customer classes as 
the product of the customer and average use forecasts. Residential customer counts are driven by 
population projections. With Small/Medium C&I customer counts are based on projected number 
of residential customers; monthly models are estimated using estimated with linear regression. 
Month class average use models are also estimated with linear regression. Models are based on an 
SAE specification that captures structural change (end-use saturation and efficiency), economic 
activity, and weather. The resulting model, which is a linear regression, is used in combination 
with projected customer counts and forecasted economic and weather variables to predict 30 years 
of hourly usage. Customer count forecasts are applied to these predictions to form a 30-year 
forecast of monthly usage sums for each customer group. 
Simultaneously but separately, five years of historical, weather normalized hourly usage per 
customer for each standard customer class are used to derive a typical-year, 8760-hour load shape 
for each customer group. This load shape is adjusted for climate and weather, then multiplied by 
forecasted customer counts to form a base forecast for each customer group. This hourly 
information is then scaled, without changing the overall shape of each day, so that the monthly 
sums of the hourly forecast add up to the predictions of the SAE model. 
The following SAE process is used to forecast these customer groups: Residential Single-Family, 
Residential Multi-Family, Large Residential (for Nevada Power only), Small Commercial and 
Industrial (“C&I”), and Medium C&I customers. Other customer groups are forecast separately. 
Monthly SAE Model 
Monthly residential and commercial customer end-use models are estimated from historical 
calendar-month load data using the SAE model specification developed by Itron, Inc. The SAE 
modeling approach entails constructing end-use energy measures (XHeat, XCool, and XOther) 
and using these variables in estimating monthly average use and sales forecast models. 
End-use variables, XCool, XHeat, and XOther incorporate end-use stock information that includes 
end-use saturation and average stock efficiency, and drivers that impact stock utilization such as 
cooling and heating degree-days, household income, household size, and GDP in the C&I models. 
Model parameters (bc, bh, and bo) are estimated using linear regression. Models are estimated from 
historical monthly sums of actual hourly usage data. Figure LF-2 depicts the SAE model. 
12 
Page 64 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 65=====
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
FIGURE LF-2 
Statistically Adjusted End-Use Model (SAE) 
Page 13 of 89
Residential and commercial sales models are estimated using a SAE model specification 
developed by Itron, Inc. The SAE modeling approach entails constructing end-use energy 
measures (XHeat, XCool, and XOther) and using these variables in estimating monthly average 
use and sales forecast models. 
SAE Model Specifications 
The 2024 IRP Forecast update continues to be based on the SAE modeling framework as outlined 
in Itron’s 2023 Residential and Commercial SAE Updates (found in Appendix LF-7). The model 
updates include the use of 2015 as the base year for the residential model, 2013 as the base year 
for the commercial model, updates to the method of computing the XOther variable for the 
Residential model and inclusion of natural gas price data in all variables. However, in our use of 
the model we’ve set all price elasticities to 0 to facilitate a separate analysis of the sensitivity of 
sales to price. The SAE framework entails constructing generalized end-use variables for cooling 
(XCool), heating (XHeat), and other uses (XOther) and then using these variables as right-hand 
variables in monthly average use and sales forecast models. The general model specification is: 
AvgUset = b0 + b1 * XCoolt + b2 * XHeatt + b3 * XOthert + e t 
The model coefficients are estimated using ordinary least squares regression. The construction of 
the end-use variables is presented below. 
13 
Page 65 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 66=====
 
 
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 14 of 89
Residential Model Variables 
XCool 
The cooling variable (XCool) is constructed by combining a variable that reflects cooling 
saturation and efficiency (CoolIndex) with a variable that captures stock utilization (CoolUse): 
𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋_(𝑦𝑦, 𝑚𝑚) = 𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶_𝑦𝑦 × 𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶_(𝑦𝑦, 𝑚𝑚)
The cooling equipment index is defined as a weighted average across cooling equipment types 
where the weight represents the average technology energy intensity (kWh per household) in the 
base year. The index changes over time with changes in end-use saturation and end-use efficiency 
(“EFF”). As cooling saturation increases the index increases, as the end-use efficiency increases 
the index decreases. A structural index variable also is incorporated into the variable calculation. 
The structural index (StructuralVar) captures change in housing square footage and thermal shell 
integrity improvement. As the weights are end-use intensities, the resulting CoolIndex is an 
estimate of annual cooling energy requirements. Formally, the cooling equipment index is defined 
as: 
𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝑦𝑦 = 𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑋𝑋𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆 ∗ � 𝑊𝑊𝐶𝐶𝑊𝑊𝑊𝑊ℎ
𝑇𝑇𝑦𝑦𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇
𝑆𝑆𝑇𝑇𝑦𝑦𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇 ×
�
𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑆𝑆ℎ𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝐶𝐶𝑦𝑦
𝑇𝑇𝑦𝑦𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇
𝐸𝐸𝐸𝐸𝐸𝐸𝑦𝑦
� 𝑇𝑇𝑦𝑦𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇�
�
𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑆𝑆ℎ𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝐶𝐶𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑇𝑇
𝑇𝑇𝑦𝑦𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇
𝐸𝐸𝐸𝐸𝐸𝐸𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑏𝑇𝑇
� 𝑇𝑇𝑦𝑦𝑇𝑇𝑇𝑇�
The CoolUse term is defined by:1 
Where, CDD is the number of cooling degree days in year (y) and month (m), 
NormCDD is the normal value for annual cooling degree days, 
HHSize is average household size in a year (y), and 
Income is average real income per household in a year (y) 
By construction, the CoolUse variable has an annual sum that is close to one in the base year. The 
CDD index works to allocate annual cooling index (which is an annual kWh estimate) to months. 
The XCool variable is constructed using data specific to Sierra and Nevada Power where data are 
available. This includes: 
1 The elasticities shown in the superscripts are default values taken from the Electric Power Research Institute 
(“EPRI”) developed Residential End-Use Energy Planning System model (“REEPS”), a detailed end-use model and 
the predecessor of the Residential SAE model. The default values have been modified to reflect estimates of these 
elasticities for the Nevada Power and Sierra service territory. The elasticities used in modeling for price are 0 for both 
territories, to facilitate modeling the effect of price separately.The elasticities used in modeling for income and 
households are 0.2 for both Nevada Power and Sierra. These elasticities were applied in developing the XCool, XHeat 
and XOther variables. 
14 
Page 66 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 67=====
 
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 15 of 89
1. Modifying the end-use saturation based on the 2008, 2011 and 2016 residential appliance 
saturation surveys for Sierra and the 2008, 2011 and 2013 single family pricing trial 
saturations surveys for Nevada Power. 
2. Using the 2015 intensities developed from ADM data. 
3. Constructing the CoolUse variable with economic drivers including real personal income, 
population, and number of households. 
4. Basing CDDs (actual and normal) from Sierra’s and Nevada Power’s historical weather 
data. 
XHeat 
The heating variable (XHeat) construction is similar to XCool. XHeat is defined as: 
𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝐶𝐶𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑦𝑦,𝑚𝑚 = 𝑋𝑋𝐶𝐶𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝑦𝑦 × 𝑋𝑋𝐶𝐶𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝑦𝑦,𝑚𝑚
The heat index (HeatIndex) incorporates residential electric heating saturation and efficiency 
projections. The utilization variable (HeatUse) is defined like CoolUse but where CDDs are 
replaced with HDDs. XHeat incorporates Sierra’s economic and price projections. The heating 
saturation rates have been modified to reflect the Sierra Residential Appliance Saturation Survey. 
The outcome is an initial estimation of average monthly household heating requirements. 
XOther 
The 2023 Itron SAE model update changes the construction of the XOther variable from that 
described in the most recent IRP, for both the residential and the commercial SAE model. XOther 
is defined as: 
ApplianceIndex embodies information about appliance saturation levels and efficiency levels. 
Seasonal usage patterns are captured by applying monthly usage factors (MoMultm) to the annual 
end-use energy intensity estimates. Each ApplianceIndex term is defined by: 
The ApplianceUse term is defined by 
15 
Page 67 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 68=====
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 16 of 89
In all of the above equations, the following term definitions apply: 
UEC is the unit energy consumption for each appliance type 
MoMult is the monthly multiplier, constructed by Itron, for each appliance type 
Weight is a weighting term, reflecting relative intensities for each appliance type 
λ and κ are price elasticities of demand to electric and natural gas prices (these are both 
zeroes in our modelling) 
BDays is the number of billing days in each month (this term is omitted in our 
modelling). 
Lighting and miscellaneous use are based on EIA’s end-use energy projections. As with heating 
and cooling, the weights are defined as the base year values of energy use per household for each 
end use. The end-use elasticities on income and household size are taken from the REEPS default 
database. The appliance category includes data for cooking, dishwashers, clothes washers, clothes 
dryers, and televisions. 
XOther is constructed using information specific to Sierra where this information is available. 
Specific service area data included in XOther are: 
1. Modifying the end-use saturation based on the 2008, 2011 and 2016 residential appliance 
saturation surveys. 
2. Using the 2015 intensities developed from ADM data and AEG lighting for Sierra. 
Constructing the OtherUse variable with MSA economic drivers including real personal 
income, household size, and number of households. 
Due to the SAE model’s use to model calendar-monthly usage data in this forecast, there is no 
need to incorporate information about billing days per month into the “XOther” variable, and so 
this variable’s formulation was modified from Itron’s standard modelling approach to omit the 
billing days entirely. 
Pursuant to NAC§ 704.922(2)(g), model documentation and complete output statistics for all 
models are included with the work papers. As a note, whenever a model omits an intercept term, 
that means there was such a good fit that the intercept was not found to be statistically significant. 
Commercial Model Variables 
The Commercial SAE Model is similar to that of the residential model. Cooling (XCool), Heating 
(XHeat), and Other Use (XOther) combine end-use energy intensity projections and factors that 
drive utilization of the end-use stock (economic activity, weather, and price). These variables are 
then used to drive commercial average use in the small commercial revenue class and total sales 
in the large commercial revenue class. 
16 
Page 68 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 69=====
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 17 of 89
XCool and XHeat 
The cooling variable (XCool) is defined as a product of an annual equipment index and a monthly 
usage multiplier: 
𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑦𝑦,𝑚𝑚 = 𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝑦𝑦 × 𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝑦𝑦,𝑚𝑚
Where,XCooly,m is estimated heating energy use in year (y) and month (m), 
CoolIndexy is the annual heating stock, and 
CoolUsey,m is the monthly usage multiplier. 
CoolIndex is designed to capture the trend in commercial cooling saturation and efficiency. Similar 
to the residential cooling index, the commercial index changes over time with changes in cooling 
equipment saturations (CoolShare) and operating efficiencies (Eff). CoolIndex can be defined as: 
In this expression, 2013 is used as a base year for normalizing the index. The ratio on the right is 
equal to 1.0 in 2013. The EIA does not explicitly provide commercial end-use saturation estimates. 
As a proxy, the index is calculated using end-use energy intensities (use per square foot) by 
building-type. End-use intensities are derived from EIA’s most recent Energy Outlook. As there 
is effectively a 100 percent cooling saturation, the index generally declines over time as cooling 
equipment efficiency continues to improve. 
Cooling requirements are driven by weather conditions and economic activity. Regional output is 
the primary economic driver used in the small commercial average use model. For the small 
commercial revenue class, the utilization variable is defined as:2 
Where, 
CDD are the number of CDDs in year (y) and month (m) using calendar-month degree days 
and daily average temperatures. 
Output is a real regional output in year (y) and month (m). 
Price is the average real price in month (m) and year (y). 
The reference year used in this model was 2013. The CDD13 value is the total CDDs in 2013, but 
the Output13 value is an average for 2013. XHeat is constructed in a similar manner to the XCool 
variable. While XHeat is statistically significant in the Small C&I models, the amount of the 
electric heating is very small. XHeat is not significant in either of the Medium C&I models, or in 
the Nevada Power Small C&I model. For XCool, XHeat and XOther, the price elasticity was set 
to 0 to facilitate analysis of price elasticity separately from the SAE model. 
2 The output elasticity for the small C&I customer class model is 0.2. 
17 
Page 69 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 70=====
 
 
 
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
XCool and XHeat are constructed to reflect the Nevada Power and Sierra service areas. Specific 
regional inputs include: 
1. Constructing HeatUse and CoolUse using the Real GMP for the Small C&I classes, 
2. HDD and CDD are based on Las Vegas and Reno weather data 
3. Output elasticities are calibrated to historical output to sales relationship. 
XOther 
The non-weather sensitive variable (XOther) is derived using a similar approach as that used for 
the cooling and heating variables. XOther is defined as: 
𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑋𝑆𝑆ℎ𝐶𝐶𝑆𝑆𝑦𝑦,𝑚𝑚 = 𝑋𝑋𝑆𝑆ℎ𝐶𝐶𝑆𝑆𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝑦𝑦,𝑚𝑚 × 𝑋𝑋𝑆𝑆ℎ𝐶𝐶𝑆𝑆𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝑦𝑦,𝑚𝑚
OtherIndex captures the energy intensity and saturation projections for the non-weather sensitive 
end-uses. This includes energy intensities for indoor lighting, outdoor lighting, ventilation, water 
heating, refrigeration, cooking, office equipment, and miscellaneous use. OtherIndex is defined 
by: 
Page 18 of 89
Where each Weight term is assigned to a type of end use based on historical and projected relative 
intensities, and each Share term is a measure of saturation. 
OtherUse captures the impact of factors that affect changes in stock utilization. OtherUse is defined 
as: 
This term is simpler in our modeling, since our price elasticities are all zero and we omit the billing 
days term. Regional non-manufacturing output is used to capture the impact of business activity 
on average usage. As this is an average use model, the impact of total output on average use is 
constrained by imposing a 0.2 elasticity on output. Changes in business activity should have a 
relatively small impact on change in customer average use. The output elasticity is determined by 
evaluating in-sample and out-of-sample model statistics for small variations in the output 
elasticity. The output elasticity with respect to small commercial average use is consistent with the 
income elasticity used in the residential average use model. 
As with the constructed XCool and XHeat variables, XOther is constructed using service area 
specific data where these data are available. 
18 
Page 70 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 71=====
 
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 19 of 89
Pursuant to NAC§ 704.922(2)(g), model documentation, estimated model results and a summary 
of model statistics are provided in workpapers. 
Hourly Average-Use Forecast Model 
Using five years of hourly per-customer usage data for a particular forecast grouping, the average 
usage is determined for each month and a weekday/weekend categorization.3 These values are 
normalized to remove the impact of weather fluctuations from year to year. In this forecast update, 
the weather normalization process is based on distinct monthly coefficients, rather than an annual 
approach that was included in previous forecast updates. The process to derive these weather 
normalization adjustments is detailed below. The result is a typical-year 8,760-hour load shape 
built for both weekdays and weekends average use for each customer group. 
Next, adjustments are made to the normalized values to incorporate two assumptions. First, the 
approved approach of incorporating a warming trend in daily temperatures over the forecast period 
is integrated into the group usage forecast, referred to as a Climate Adjustment. The assumption is 
that the current local warming trends in Reno and Las Vegas will continue into the future in a 
strictly linear fashion. To get the Climate Adjustment, the appropriate cooling and heating 
coefficients are multiplied by the difference between Trended Daily Normals, trended to the final 
year of the historical data (“Reference Normals”), and Trended Daily Normals, trended to the year 
of each day in the 30-year forecast period (“Forecast Normals”). The order of subtraction is 
Forecast Normals minus Reference Normals. The Climate Adjustment tends to increase usage in 
hot months and decrease it in cold months as daily temperatures increase over the forecast period. 
The process to achieve the trended-normal weather is detailed later in this Technical Appendix. 
The second refinement incorporates the assumption that every day in the forecast period will depart 
from normal weather by some random amount, similar to fluctuations in real weather. The purpose 
of this adjustment is to mitigate the dampening effect on peaks caused by the unreasonable 
alternative assumption that every day’s weather will be a normal average, because peaks typically 
occur on days that have above normal temperatures. This adjustment, referred to as the Weather 
Adjustment, considers the daily usage ranges within a given month relative to the average daily 
temperatures, in order to reflect higher usage on hotter days and lower usage on cooler days within 
each month. This step removes the necessity of developing a separate peak model as was done in 
previous forecast updates. 
Each day’s trended temperature over the past 20 years is ranked from largest to smallest, based on 
calendar month. So, each day is assigned a number between 1 and 31, with 1 meaning the day is 
the hottest day of that month. The temperatures of days with the same ranking are averaged across 
20 years, for each month. By averaging the trended temperatures of all of the days with rank 1 in 
all the Januarys, for example, we get the expected trended temperature of the hottest day in any 
January. Doing the same for each month and each rank provides monthly average temperatures for 
each ranked day of the month. Using the monthly rank for each day’s normal temperature in the 
3 In a period of five years, every day of the year will appear as a weekend day at least once, and as a weekday at least 
three times. For every hour of the year, the average usage across those years during which the hour fell during a 
weekday were averaged to get the weekday typical usage value for that hour during the weekday. Similar computations 
were performed to get the weekend typical usage for each hour, however since weekend data is more sparse, averages 
were taken for the two neighboring days for each hour as well. Values for the leap day were constructed by averaging 
the two neighboring days. 
19 
Page 71 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 72=====
 
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 20 of 89
forecast period, an expected temperature, deviated from normal, is assigned to each day, with an 
associated degree-day value. The trended daily normal degree-day value is subtracted from this 
assigned degree-day value, and then multiplied by the appropriate weather normalization 
coefficient to identify the daily weather adjustment. 
Although peaks generally fall on days with extreme weather, temperature is not the only 
contributor to peaks. Peaks also tend to occur on days with high non-weather-related load. A 
system similar to the month-ranking of temperature was developed, to rank each class’s daily 
weather-normalized usage sums by month, average the values by rank, and assign the average 
ranked deviations from the typical-year load shape to each day in the forecast. These assigned non￾weather-related deviations form the Usage Rank Adjustment for each day. Ranks are assigned to 
forecast days by the same criteria used to assign temperature ranks for the Weather Adjustment. 
Finally, the forecast’s daily sums are added to the adjustments (for the Climate Adjustment, the 
Weather Adjustment, and the Usage Rank Adjustment), and the result is then divided by the 
forecast’s daily sums. This provides a daily adjustment factor for each day, which is then 
multiplied by each hourly forecast value in that day, to reflect the usage fluctuations due to 
temperature across the forecast period. 
Since the SAE modelling framework is based on monthly information, the results of the hourly 
calculations are then scaled by month so that the hourly forecast’s calendar-monthly sums equal 
the SAE predictions. The SAE predictions (scaled by customer count forecasts) are divided by the 
hourly forecast’s monthly sums, to get monthly factors. Then, the hourly forecast values are all 
multiplied by the appropriate monthly factor, which results in an hourly forecast whose monthly 
sums are exactly the predictions of the SAE model. 
20 
Page 72 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 73=====
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 21 of 89
D. MODEL INPUTS 
Historical Data 
Historical hourly usage data, rather than monthly billing data, for each customer group was used 
as a starting point of customer data for this forecast update. By making this simple change from 
using billing data to using meter data for this model, we switched from revenue-monthly data to 
calendar-monthly data for the SAE model, and from revenue-monthly data to hourly data for the 
rest of our modeling. Since customers are split up into 20 different billing cycles, each beginning 
on a different day of the month, using revenue-monthly sales data would require adjustments to 
the other, calendar-monthly data in order to cycle-weight that information. Since this forecast 
update now uses meter data simply summed by calendar month for the SAE model, the process of 
cycle-weighting is no longer necessary. 
Pursuant to NAC § 704.9281(1)(a) and (b), Table LF-8 summarizes the recorded annual GWh 
energy, MW Peak, and annual load factor for NV Energy, Nevada Power, and Sierra. As a note, 
energy serving Liberty Utilities in California has been excluded from this table, which represents 
Nevada only energy and peak information. 
TABLE LF-8 
HISTORICAL DATA SUMMARY 
21 
Page 73 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 74=====
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 22 of 89
Pursuant to NAC § 704.9281(1)(a), Tables LF-9 and LF-10 provides a summary of the historical 
peak demand, both actual and weather normalized, by season. The weather normalized peak of the 
individual companies is based on the relationship between temperature deviations from normal 
and actual temperatures. Nevada Power shows statistically significant relationships with daily 
average temperature in both Summer (June-September) and Winter (December-February) seasons. 
Sierra’s peaks show a statistically significant relationship to the untrended normal weather values 
of daily average in the Summer season and daily minimum temperature during Winter. 
TABLE LF-9 
NEVADA POWER HISTORICAL PEAKS 
22 
Page 74 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 75=====
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
TABLE LF-10 
SIERRA HISTORICAL PEAKS 
Page 23 of 89
Pursuant to Nevada Administrative Code (“NAC”) § 704.9281(1)(b) and (c), Table LF-11 shows 
the historical recorded and weather normalized sales, energy used by the Company at its facilities 
(company use), and estimated historical losses from 2014-2023 for NV Energy, Nevada Power, 
and Sierra. Weather adjusted values are shown where applicable. The NV Energy columns for 
retail sales are the Nevada jurisdictional sales, as activities of Liberty Utilities in California are 
excluded from the retail sales requirements. Following the current contract terms to provide energy 
to Liberty Utility, these loads are included as overall system energy requirements until 2026. 
Afterwards these loads are considered as part of the DOS load requirements on the larger control 
area system. 
TABLE LF-11 
NV ENERGY HISTORICAL SALES, LOSSES AND COMPANY USE 
23 
Page 75 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 76=====
 
 
 
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 24 of 89
Economic and Demographic Data Inputs 
Population is the primary driver in the residential customer forecast model. The forecast residential 
customers, based on population estimates, determine the Small C&I and Medium C&I customer 
models. In this forecast update, the Nevada Power models include a Clark County population 
forecast based on the historical population series from the State Demographer Governor’s Certified 
Series from July 2002- July 2022.4 The last historical population values from the State 
Demographer’s Certified Series are used as initial values for population forecasting. Percent 
growth is then determined by averaging percent growth seen in the State Demographer’s 20-year 
projections, the CBER forecasts, and the S&P Global’s IHS Markit’s baseline projections. Sierra’s 
models use northern Nevada’s population history and forecast, which is Nevada minus Clark 
County’s population. 
Historical and forecasted demographic and economic data are based on S&P Global’s IHS Markit 
June 2023 forecasts for the Las Vegas-Paradise Metropolitan Statistical Area (“Clark County”) for 
Nevada Power and Nevada less Clark County designated as Northern Nevada (“NN”) throughout 
the rest of this document. In this forecast update, forecasted employment indices from S&P Global 
were used to forecast customer counts of the individual Large C&I customer groups, rather than 
the general Real GMP index and the forecasted Hotel Room counts, as done in previous forecast 
updates. As the largest Casino customers in both Southern and Northern Nevada have exited fully￾bundled service over the past several years, hotel rooms counts were not used to inform the retail 
forecast in this update. 5 
Table LF-12 identifies the economic forecasts used to for each individual Large C&I customer 
group defined for existing customers. As a note, the growth for existing Nevada Power Data Center 
customers was fixed at 0.5 percent, since the large portion of this load is individually forecasted 
through the Major Projects considerations. Sierra’s existing Data Center load is forecasted using 
the NN Population growth rates for a similar reason. 
TABLE LF-12 
ECONOMIC INDICATORS FOR LARGE C&I CUSTOMERS 
4 See, Technical Appendix LF-3 for the State Demographer’s certified population history. 5 See, Technical Appendix LF-4 for a year-to-date summary of the hotel/motel rooms. 
24 
Page 76 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 77=====
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 25 of 89
This economic and demographic data is provided on a quarterly basis but is required on a monthly 
basis. This forecast update converts this lower frequency data to higher frequency data (e.g. 
converting quarterly or annual to monthly data) by determining the growth between quarters and 
splitting evenly between the corresponding months. This is a change from the 2021 IRPA 3rd 
Forecast that employed the statistical Denton-Cholette method to complete the same process. 
Table LF-13 is a summary of the historical and forecasted Clark County population, residential 
customers and hotel rooms and Table LF-14 shows the Northern Nevada Population and Sierra’s 
residential customers. 
TABLE LF-13 
SUMMARY OF THE HISTORY AND FORECAST OF CLARK COUNTY NEVADA 
POPULATION AND RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMERS 
25 
Page 77 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 78=====
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
TABLE LF-14 
SUMMARY OF THE HISTORY AND FORECAST OF NORTHERN NEVADA 
POPULATION AND RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMERS 
Page 26 of 89
26 
Page 78 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 79=====
 
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Tables LF-15 and LF-16 are a summary of the Economic Variables used in the updated forecast. 
Persons per household (“PPH”) is calculated by dividing the IHS Markit population history and 
forecast by the IHS Markit history and forecast of households. PPH is incorporated in the 
residential average use model. Real Personal Income (“RPI”) is from the GI data and Real Personal 
Income per Household (“RPI per HH”) was developed by dividing GI RPI by GI households. 
TABLE LF-15 
HISTORY AND FORECAST OF CLARK COUNTY ECONOMIC VARIABLES 
Page 27 of 89
27 
Page 79 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 80=====
 
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
TABLE LF-16 
Page 28 of 89
HISTORY AND FORECAST OF NORTHERN NEVADA ECONOMIC VARIABLES 
Customer Data 
Residential. Residential customer counts are driven by the population forecast. Nevada Power 
uses the population estimates derived from the Nevada State Demographer estimates extrapolated 
by the average growth rates of IHS and CBER population projections. Sierra’s population follows 
the same process but uses the population estimates for Northern Nevada (State of Nevada minus 
Clark County). 
In this forecast update, average daily use per residential customer is based upon five years of daily 
hourly load information. NEM customers are excluded from the average use per customer 
calculations for residential customers, and the separately forecast counts and sales are removed 
from the final hourly forecast information to reflect the change in hourly sales that occurs as 
customers choose to install private generation on their premises. The residential sales are derived 
28 
Page 80 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 81=====
 
 
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 29 of 89
by multiplying the forecasted counts by average use per customer for monthly information, which 
is then refined for the weather normalization and SAE model adjustments. 
NEM Customers. The first step in forecasting residential NEM customers was to review the net 
metering capacity and customer counts installed as of June 2023 for both Nevada Power and Sierra. 
For class-specific information December 2022 capacity by rate class was available for Nevada 
Power and September 2021 information was available for Sierra. These customer counts are 
cumulative and representative of the first time a customer installed solar for the given timeframe. 
Regressions were run for residential solar customers for NPC and SPPC in aggregate as well as at 
the class load level for all NEM classes. 
For the 2024 IRP Forecast update, forecasted NEM customer counts continue on historical growth 
rate trends until the counts achieve 15 percent of the total residential customer population. At this 
point the customer growth rate coefficient is reduced by five percent per year until the growth rates 
equal to the population growth. At Nevada Power, the modelling results estimate approximately 
989 residential customers install private generation per month until September 2027 when the 
growth rates begin to decrease. At Sierra, an additional 77 customers per month install generation 
and do not hit the limit through the forecast period. As of June 2023, approximately 102,250 
individual residential customers had installed behind the meter on-site solar and wind sites across 
NV Energy’s service territories and are considered net-metering systems. Non-solar behind-the￾meter accounted for a negligible fraction of total customer-generated energy, at approximately 
0.15% of total Nevada NEM customers as of June 2023. Additionally, growth in non-solar 
customers has decreased, with no new customer after 2016 based on June 2023 information. Based 
on this information, unless otherwise stated, NEM information presented below refers to solar 
customers. 
In order to forecast the overall sales growth of solar customers, the average kW capacity of 
installed systems was used across all NEM customer classes. The average is approximately 7.4 
kW for Nevada Power and 5.8 kW for Sierra residential customers. The NEM customer sales are 
derived by multiplying the forecasted counts by average use per customer for monthly information, 
which is then refined for the weather normalization and SAE model adjustments. Projected 
incremental peak reductions of 25 MW at Nevada Power and 10 MW at Sierra by 2025 are based 
on the installed solar capacity of 942 MW and 71 MW for NEM rate class customers in each 
respective company. 
The resulting capacity forecast is used to model hourly generation values for the customer 
population. The hourly load shapes developed for the 2022 Sierra General Rate Case (Docket No. 
22-06014) and the 2023 Nevada Power GRC (Docket No. 23-06007) filings. This hourly 
generation is then subtracted from a total unadjusted residential forecast to identify the modelled 
reductions in sales related to customer’s choice to install PV generation on their premises. The 
received energy that is sent back to the grid, when customers’ on-site usage is less than their 
generation, is also calculated. Following the current billing paradigm in Nevada, that allows for 
monthly netting of a customer’s generation on their bill, this received energy is subtracted from 
the residential and Small C&I sales forecasts. 
The Companies made no specific adjustments for energy storage customers in this update. 
Currently, there are approximately 2,370 customers with storage as of March 2024. The companies 
have less than two years of data for well over half of these customers. There is not enough data to 
determine the peak and hourly load impacts given the limited adoption of energy storage devices. 
29 
Page 81 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 82=====
 
 
 
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 30 of 89
Until the Companies have sufficient data regarding the operating characteristics of behind-the￾meter storage, either stand-alone or coupled with solar adjustments (either increases, decreases, 
and/or shifts in load) to the load forecast are not possible. The difference in impacts from those 
customers who install solar generation will be immaterial until the adoption rates increase 
significantly. The Companies will include storage impacts in future forecasts once they have 
sufficient hourly storage operating data from meters installed on all new storage devices. 
Small & Medium Commercial Customers. Small and Medium C&I customers follow the same 
general approach as that used in the 2021 IRPA 3rd Forecast where forecasted customer counts 
are driven by the forecast residential customers for both Nevada Power and Sierra. Small and 
Medium C&I NEM customers follow the same general approach as that of the residential NEM 
forecast discussed above. 
Large Commercial Customers and Major Projects. In this forecast, Large Commercial and 
Industrial (“Large C&I”) customer forecasts are separately forecast by type of customer (e.g. 
Casino, Mine, Data Center, Water, General Industrial) and then included as a portion of the larger 
overall Large C&I customer group. Customer counts for each group are forecasted using 
applicable economic drivers (e.g. population, employment, room counts) that are then multiplied 
by average use per customer to derive hourly sales for each group. 
Certain individual Large C&I customers are individually forecasted and added to the general 
forecast to achieve the total Large C&I amounts. Forecasts for these customers are based on 
discussions with the Companies’ Major Account, Economic Development, and Major Projects 
groups, and customer input related to expected business activity and associated sales and demand 
impacts. These Large C&I sales forecasts may be also adjusted for customer-specific forecasts 
including DOS-related sales loss. As a note, DOS customer classes are forecasted in a similar 
manner, but do not affect the companies’ retail load requirements, and are therefore not included 
in the load forecast generally presented here. In this forecast update, those Major Projects with 
signed Rule 9 interconnection agreements have been separately considered from those in the Study 
Phase of the process. 
Historically, the ramp-up time for expected future large customer load that is forecasted 
individually may be discounted as part of the forecast. This expected future customer load may be 
discounted for various factors: 
1. For some new load the customer requested MW is discounted to reflect operation of less 
than full capacity (“Expected Load”); 
2. A probability of the large customer becoming operational at expected levels was assigned 
to each new customer or expansion based on whether they were a current customer, their 
size, and their provided schedule. This probability factor is then multiplied by the expected 
load to obtain the final forecasted load for that customer. 
3. Whether or not the project has a signed Rule 9 interconnection agreement. Those projects 
still in the engineering study phase will incorporate larger reductions to the expected loads 
identified at the time the forecast is developed. 
In this forecast update, load growth from Data Center projects is the largest contributor to the 
energy and peak demands at Sierra. Much of this growth is concentrated within the Tahoe-Reno 
Industrial Center (“TRIC”) area, where 3,820 MW of incremental capacity is requested by 
customers. At Nevada Power, the concentration of growth centers on the Apex industrial area, 
30 
Page 82 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 83=====
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 31 of 89
where 390 MW of incremental capacity are requested. Table LF-16 summarizes the total 
requested, and adjusted amounts included in the retail sales forecast, by status of project for both 
Nevada Power and Sierra. 
Those projects in the Study phase are more significantly reduced from those projects with a signed 
Rule 9 agreement that defines the facilities to be put into service. Overall, those projects with a 
signed agreement have been reduced by 48 percent from the customer requested amounts, while 
those in the Study Phase have been reduced 85 percent. At these levels, the load included in the 
base forecast estimate that approximately nine projects with signed Rule 9 agreements will move 
forward at customer requested levels, but only four in the Study Phase will do so as well. 
The increase in sales to the 2024 IRP Forecast update grows by 905 GWH at Nevada Power and 
12,382 GWH at Sierra by 2033 from these Major Projects. This reflects reductions from customer￾requested amounts of 94 percent at Nevada Power and 78 percent at Sierra. Table LF-17 
summarizes the growth of these projects over the 10-year Rule 9 contract period. 
TABLE LF-17 
MAJOR PROJECT CAPACITY FORECAST 
31 
Page 83 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 84=====
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
While data centers represent less than one-third of the included projects, these projects account 
approximately 75 percent of the Major Project load growth included in this 2024 IRP forecast 
update. These twelve customers represent 5,900 MW of requested capacity by 2033 and expected 
load growth of 957 GWh at Nevada Power and 24,633 GWh at Sierra. 
Three casino projects at Nevada Power were also individually forecasted in this update with a total 
amount of 64 MW of requested capacity with expected loads of 60 GWh by 2033. At Sierra there 
are three new or expanding mining projects identified with 60 MW of capacity, and 340,000 MWh 
in expected sales over the same period. 
The 2024 Joint IRP forecast is made at a point in time for preparation of this filing and cannot 
reflect constant updates to these projects. While there have been several changes to the project list 
since these inputs to the 2024 Joint ESP forecast were developed in August 2023, the current state 
of these projects in Nevada continues to support the overall load levels included in the 2024 Joint 
ESP forecast. Since these inputs were finalized, zero projects with signed Rule 9 agreements have 
been cancelled, five study phase have signed agreements, three other projects in the study phase 
have been put on hold, and four additional study phase projects that would now be included for 
consideration. 
The net effect of any updates; removing the study phase projects placed on hold, adding new 
projects, and modifying the expected loads of those projects with now-signed agreements, would 
provide an overall 2,304 MW increase in the amount of requested capacity for signed Rule 9 
agreement projects at the expense of a 2,605 MW decrease of Study phase projects, for a net 
decrease of 301 MW of requested capacity. However, applying a consistent approach to the 
mitigation of these requested amounts, as that included in the base forecast, results in a net increase 
of approximately 800 MW of expected loads by 2033, since the incremental signed agreement 
project amounts are discounted by lower amounts than those currently in the study phase. 
For Large C&I standby customers, since most of these customers are pure generators who only 
require backup station service when their generation stops producing, the number of customers 
and loads for this customer group were kept constant in this forecast update. Pursuant to NAC 
704.925(7), it is necessary to determine the impacts on peak demand of these Large C&I standby 
customers. With respect to large customer distributed generation, there are currently two Large 
C&I customers who have installed large solar arrays. The first is Nellis Air Force Base, whose 
customer-owned photovoltaic plant that can generate up to 14 MW of capacity. Another 
cogeneration site in Sierra’s territory is slightly less at 13.6 MW. Depending on the hour of peak, 
the contribution of these systems will vary. As with all solar generation, the available production 
will quickly decrease as the daylight hours wane. For example, the impact of these host-generator 
standby generation systems on the system peak will peak around 1 p.m. at 70 percent of capacity 
and will drop to approximately 30 percent by 6 p.m in the evening. The loads of these customers, 
net of on-site generation, are included in the Large C&I forecast totals. 
Public Authority & Irrigation Customers. At Nevada Power, the Water Pumping/Public 
Authority customers are separately forecast and are driven by the population estimates to derive 
customer counts. At Sierra, the irrigation customer classes (e.g. IS-1, IS-2 and Elko WP classes) 
are separately forecasted using Northern Nevada population estimates. 
32 
Page 32 of 89
Page 84 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 85=====
 
 
 
 
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 33 of 89
Street Lighting. Street Lighting lamp counts and sales were maintained at current levels 
throughout the forecast due to expected efficiencies in the adoption of LED type lamps that are 
expected to be offset by customer growth over the forecast period. 
Electric Vehicles. The 2024 IRP Forecast includes an electric vehicle forecast developed by a 
third-party consultant, Energy and Environmental Economics, Inc. (“E3”) in October 2023 that 
was used as the basis to inform the Market Potential Study detailed in the Demand Side 
Management (“DSM”) Plan. Further detail of how this forecast was developed is also provided in 
the Transportation Electrification Plan. 
In this forecast update, this component of the 2024 IRP Forecast assumes that EV adoption grows 
to account for 25 percent of total vehicles in Nevada by 2033. This represents growth rates of 22 
percent annually over the next 10 years. By 2044, the percentage of total vehicles increases to 44 
percent. Incorporated into the sales growth are assumptions that the average EV is driven for 
12,865 miles annually and that the “rated” efficiency for the average vehicle on the road today is 
3.47 miles per kWh. Additionally, E3’s RESHAPE-EV model applies a derate to the vehicle’s 
efficiency to capture the impacts of ambient temperature on the efficiency of the vehicle’s battery 
and auxiliary energy use in the vehicle (e.g. use of the vehicle’s air conditioning) while driving. 
Considering the impacts of ambient temperature, vehicles on the road today are assumed to drive 
2.87 miles per 1 kWh of charging. This results in an average annual electric use per EV of 4,480 
kWh. Further, this forecast update assumes that battery efficiency will increase by one percent a 
year. The forecasted incremental loads are added to both the residential and commercial customer 
group forecasts based on the split modeled with RESHAPE-EV which showed 70% of charging 
will occur at home and 30% will occur at work or public charging. 
Distribution-Only Service (DOS) Customers. Forecasted counts and sales for DOS customers 
were performed for the 2024 IRP Forecast update but are not included in the retail sales forecast 
since these customers purchase energy from another provider. The forecast process for these 
customers follow the same steps as those performed for the full-requirements Large C&I customer 
grouping. 
Data for Weather Normalization 
Pursuant to NAC § 704.9281(1)(b), sales have been weather normalized for the 2024 IRP Forecast 
update. Sales to both Nevada Power’s and Sierra’s residential single-family, residential multi￾family and small commercial and industrial classes are particularly sensitive to weather. Therefore, 
it is necessary to account for weather within the load forecast. Temperature measurements as 
reported by Reno/Tahoe International Airport and Harry Reid International Airport, and as 
recorded in the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration’s Global Historical 
Climatological Network Daily Database, were used to project trended normal weather into the 
forecast period. Twenty years of trended historical values were ranked by month, and average 
temperatures for each within-month rank were used to provide more realistic departures from 
normal temperatures during the forecast period. The daily average temperature is used to calculate 
Cooling Degree Days (“CDD”) and Heating Degree Days (“HDD”) measurements for use in the 
modelling process. CDDs and HDDs are simply the number of degrees that the average daily 
temperature is above (for CDD) or below (for HDD) a set threshold, with the threshold determined 
statistically for each customer class. Those days where the average daily temperature is greater 
than the threshold are considered days where customers will increase cooling usage, while those 
33 
Page 85 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 86=====
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 34 of 89
days under the threshold will show increases related to heating usage. Calendar HDDs and CDDs 
are generated by summing the daily degree-days over the calendar month. 
Normal Weather. Expected weather conditions are a key driver of electric heating and cooling 
requirements. The industry-standard has been to assume that future weather conditions will most 
likely look like an average of past weather conditions; HDD and CDD forecasts are derived by 
averaging historical daily or monthly degree-days. Following the current methodology approved 
by the Commission, the 2024 IRP Forecast update incorporates a trended normal weather 
approach. Forecasted HDD and CDD values used in this forecast update are based on this expected 
increase in average temperature. 
The trended-normal weather approach was approved by the Commission with supporting 
information from a recent study by Itron for the Company, that found average temperatures have 
been increasing 1.1 degrees per decade in Las Vegas and as high as 1.5 degrees per decade in 
Reno. In this update, both Las Vegas and Reno continue to see a statistically significant increase 
in average annual temperature. This temperature increase is consistent with other trend analyses 
conducted by Itron and others including a study by University of Pennsylvania and Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Franscisco (On the Evolution of U.S. Temperature Dynamics, Francis X. 
Diebold, Glenn Rudebusch, July 2019, paper number 19-012, Penn Institute for Economic 
Research). 
The trend analysis is based on fifty years of annual average temperatures for McCarran and Reno 
International Airports. Figures LF-3 and LF-4 show measured temperature trend, calculation, 
supporting statistics, and upper and lower 95% prediction interval. Linear regression analysis 
shows average temperature increasing 0.105 degrees per year in Las Vegas (1.05 degrees per 
decade) and 0.139 degrees per year in Reno (1.39 degrees per decade). Both trend variables are 
statistically significant as measured by the F and T statistics, and associated P-Values. 
FIGURE LF-3 
Las Vegas Average Annual Temperature Trend (1974 to 2023) 
34 
Page 86 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 87=====
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
FIGURE LF-4 
Reno Average Annual Temperature Trend (1974 to 2023) 
Page 35 of 89
In calculating trended normal degree-days for use in the 2024 IRP forecast update, NPC 
temperatures are assumed continue to increase at the same rate as that over the prior fifty years at 
1.05 degrees per decade. Sierra forecast assumes that temperatures increase at the fifty-year trend 
of 1.39 degrees per decade. 
The trended daily normal temperatures are rotated onto a typical daily weather pattern based on 
the last twenty years of observed temperature data. The pattern is selected to preserve monthly 
peak temperatures. Averaged monthly order statistics are used in calculated daily degree-days that 
are then either used directly or summed to the calendar-month or revenue-month, for monthly 
models. 
Weather Normalized Sales. In order to obtain weather normalized sales in this forecast update, 
ordinary least squares regressions between sales and the corresponding CDDs and HDDs were 
performed for Residential and Small and Medium C&I customer classes. The resulting coefficients 
of the regressions are applied to the differences between a trended normal CDD/HDD and the 
actual CDD/HDD totals for each month to provide an additive adjustment to weather normalize 
the data. As in previous filings, the SAE model is not used as a weather normalization model, since 
it is an econometric model blending economic impacts with weather impacts. Table LF-18 
provides an example of the calculation of weather normalized sales using Nevada Power’s 
residential single family billed sales per customer for July 2023. Sierra weather normalization uses 
the same procedure. 
35 
Page 87 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 88=====
 
 
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
TABLE LF-18 
EXAMPLE OF WEATHER NORMALIZED RESIDENTIAL SALES 
Page 36 of 89
In this 2024 IRP forecast update, because of the current ready availability of ample historical 
hourly usage data for these customer groups, a methodology of weather normalization based on a 
regression of daily actual usage on daily temperature data was followed to directly weather 
normalize all hourly data used in the forecasting process. This is a refinement from the 
methodology used in the 2021 IRPA 3rd Forecast, which used monthly billed data to determine the 
impact of weather on sales. This change provides a dataset with a much higher degree of precision, 
and with a significantly larger sample size (daily datapoints instead of monthly) than the prior 
methodology. Therefore, this methodology provides opportunities to further refine the regression, 
allowing each month its own coefficients for cooling/heating, instead of a single pair of 
coefficients for the full year. Table LF-19 summarizes the cooling and heating distinct monthly 
coefficients for the Nevada Power and Sierra systems. 
TABLE LF-19 
NEVADA POWER AND SIERRA WEATHER COEFFICIENTS 
As an example of this process for an individual class, Figure LF-5 below demonstrate the daily 
impact of average temperature on customer usage of Sierra Pacific’s single-family residential 
36 
Page 88 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 89=====
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 37 of 89
(“D1”) customer class. For these customers, cooling usage begins to increase as the daily 
temperature rises above approximately 65 degrees, while heating usage begins to increase at 
approximately 55 degrees. Further, the figures indicate that each month has a separate correlation 
between usage and daily temperatures. 
FIGURE LF-5 
Average Daily Usage and Temperature, Nevada Power Single-Family 
37 
Page 89 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 90=====
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
The updated approach employed in this forecast update also provides the opportunity to test for 
the significance of heating and cooling relationships in each month. For example, for Nevada 
Power’s single-family residential usage, in April, which was previously weather normalized for 
both cooling and heating, there was not a statistically significant relationship related to cooling 
usage and temperature. Therefore, cooling was removed from the regression for that class in April. 
In general, the overall trend is for the strength of the cooling and heating responses to increase in 
hotter/colder months and decrease during shoulder months. Compared with shoulder months, a 
larger proportion of the customers in each class respond to temperature increases with cooling 
usage during the hottest months. The aggregate result is for temperature-sensitive customer groups 
to have a stronger cooling response, degree-day for degree-day, in the hottest months. The heating 
response evolves similarly in the coldest months. This is reflected in the model’s larger coefficients 
for the temperature-extreme months, and smaller coefficients for shoulder months. 
For the normalization adjustments, the regression used was an ordinary least squares multiple 
regression performed on all possible three-way interactions of the following: 
• a pair of degree-day columns (CDD and HDD temperature columns) 
• 12 indicator variables (one for each month) 
• An indicator of whether or not each day fell on a weekend. 
The resulting t-statistic and associated p-value for each interaction term within each regression 
were then examined. If the p-value was any larger than 0.1, or if the interaction term had fewer 
than 15 non-zero values in the 5-year daily dataset, that interaction term was removed from the 
regression. Furthermore, if the p-value for any weekend indicator variable was greater than 0.1, it 
was also deemed not significant, and was removed from the final regression, along with all its 
interactions. However, no weather-normalized standard customer grouping was found to be 
weekend insensitive in this way, and the weekend indicator was retained in all regressions for the 
standard classes. The results, shown in Tables LF-20 and LF-21, is a collection of coefficients for 
each grouping which represent the kWh impact per customer of a single degree-day in a particular 
month on either a weekend day or on a weekday. 
38 
Page 38 of 89
Page 90 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 91=====
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
TABLE LF-20 
Heating and Cooling Coefficients for Nevada Power 
Page 39 of 89
Note: Units are kWh per day per customer per HDD/CDD. 
TABLE LF-21 
Heating and cooling coefficients for Sierra 
Note: Units are kWh per day per customer per HDD/CDD. 
39 
Page 91 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 92=====
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 40 of 89
After obtaining coefficients from the above-described regression, the following process was 
followed: 
• Find trended normal degree-days for each day of the year (see subsection III.C). 
• For each day in the dataset, subtract the difference between the actual and normal 
degree days. Negative values indicate a downward adjustment is necessary, positive 
values indicate a positive adjustment is necessary. 
• Multiply the difference obtained above by the appropriate regression coefficient to get 
the resulting adjustment. 
• Add the adjustment from the step above to the actual usage sum for that day. 
• Divide this adjusted usage sum by the actual usage sum for the day to obtain the daily 
weather normalization factor. 
• Multiply all hourly values for each day by that day’s weather normalization factor to 
obtain weather-normalized hourly usage. 
The resulting weather normalized usage, are then used for the steps described in Section III for 
development of the load forecast. 
SAE Related Inputs 
Residential Energy Intensities.6 The energy intensities for the Statistically Adjusted End Use 
were updated to the 2021 values provided by Itron and then adjusted based on energy intensities 
(“EI”) developed by ADM Associates based on analysis of the customer survey responses from 
the 2016 Residential Appliance Saturation Survey (“2016 RASS”). Recent historical and projected 
values were added to these datasets with a 2023 update. 
Commercial Appliance Equipment Indices. Commercial end-use intensities (use per square 
feet) are incorporated in the commercial sales forecast variables. End-use intensities projections 
are based on the U.S. Energy Information Administration (“EIA”) 2023 Annual Energy Outlook 
for the Mountain Census Division. End-use energy intensities are calculated for ten end-uses 
across eleven building types. End-use intensities for the Mountain Census Region are modified to 
reflect the Nevada Power and Sierra service area building/business mix based on estimates of sales 
delivered to specific business categories. 
Retail Price 
In this forecast update, the Retail Price component was specifically excluded from the SAE 
modelling efforts so that the results could individually presented. This is an effort to respond to 
the Commission request for more detailed rate impact analyses in recent IRP amendments, and its 
resulting impacts on the load forecast, for this proceeding. Therefore, this update for the 2024 IRP 
Forecast calculates the potential load impact stemming from changes in price separately. The 
forecasted rates, resulting from the company’s rate impact analysis and detailed in the Financial 
Plan of the 2024 IRP Narrative, are used to estimate the potential impacts on the load forecast. The 
steps for this analysis, and resulting impacts, are further detailed below. 
6 The use of the XCool, XHeat and XOther indices for the residential and commercial class sales forecasts satisfies 
NAC 704.925(4). 
40 
Page 92 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 93=====
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
A historical electric price variable is constructed for each revenue class. The historical price series 
is defined as a 12-month moving average of the average retail rate. The average retail rate is 
calculated by dividing billed revenues by billed sales and adjusting the series for inflation. Using 
a 12-month moving average mitigates the seasonal fluctuations in the revenue/sales causal 
relationship (i.e., revenues are up when sales are up). The annual growth rates are further smoothed 
by using a moving 3-year average. This smoothing of the historical prices provides an estimate of 
how long-term price changes affect customer usage over the forecast period. 
Table LF-22 is a summary of the annual average prices per kWh used in the Nevada Power class 
sales modelling and Table LF-23 is the same information for Sierra. 
41 
Page 41 of 89
Page 93 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 94=====
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 42 of 89
TABLE LF-22 
NEVADA POWER’S CUSTOMER CLASS - REAL AVERAGE PRICE PER KWH 
42 
Page 94 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 95=====
 
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
TABLE LF-23 
SIERRA’S CUSTOMER CLASS - REAL AVERAGE PRICE PER KWH 
Page 43 of 89
The historical average use per customer sales information was compared to the historical prices 
through a linear regression, in order to estimate customer responses to prices. Table LF-24 presents 
the resulting coefficients and model statistics from this approach. The resulting impacts of the 
modelling demonstrate statistically insignificant impacts for all customer groups, except for Large 
C&I customers at both Nevada Power and Sierra. For these customers, the low r-squared results 
of 8.5 percent at Nevada Power and 14.7 percent at Sierra support the assertion that price alone is 
not a significant predictor of future usage for these customer classes. 
43 
Page 95 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 96=====
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
TABLE LF-24 
ELECTRIC PRICE RESPONSE MODEL RESULTS 
Page 44 of 89
Further analysis in this area is needed as it is expected that customer responses to price will vary 
more greatly depending on how quickly prices change. The smoothed price data series used in this 
analysis provides an estimate of long-term changes in behavior that may occur as prices change, 
but greater shorter-term fluctuations are likely to occur as customers respond to more rapidly 
changing prices and economic conditions. 
To determine the potential load impact in this update, the average use per customer model results 
for Large C&I customers were then multiplied by the forecasted average rates to identify an impact 
to the load forecast that would be expected from the company’s preferred plan in this proceeding. 
It is important to note that these estimated impacts would not change the company’s preferred plan. 
However, if the Commission approves the company’s preferred plan, these impacts would be 
incorporated into the Load Forecast for future filings. Per NAC § 704.9225(2), Table LF-25 
presents the potential load forecast impacts that could be considered by the Commission for 
inclusion into the load forecast. 
44 
Page 96 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 97=====
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
TABLE LF-25 
ESTIMATED GWH IMPACT OF RETAIL PRICES 
Page 45 of 89
Adjustments for DSM Program Savings 
DSM impacts are captured through the model estimation process, EIA end-use efficiency 
projections, and information provided by the DSM group. In this forecast update, the base forecast 
includes reductions based on the current 1.1 percent of weather-normalized sales statewide goal. 
These amounts are modified in the company’s preferred plan to incorporate the proposed DSM 
program savings detailed in the DSM Plan. A modified load forecast is provided in Section V, 
comparing the effect of these proposed savings relative to the base forecast. 
Forecasted DSM reductions are based on a goal of 1.1 percent of state-wide forecasted sales before 
adjusting for DSM. Sales used in calculating the DSM savings goal are further adjusted for energy 
sent back to the grid from NEM customers, EV sales gains, and other non-modeled sales 
adjustments. In the base forecast, the 1.1 percent of sales incorporates assumed energy efficiency 
measures from individual programs, including those focused on DR measures. See the work papers 
for the calculations used to develop the DSM reductions. Typical DSM company programs are 
45 
Page 97 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 98=====
 
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 46 of 89
briefly described below. More detailed descriptions of programs are provided in the Demand Side 
Plan narrative. 
1. Sierra Residential – This program provides customers with smart thermostats. Customers 
benefit from thermostat hardware and software that optimizes the performance of 
residential heating and cooling systems for both dispatchable peak demand and year-round 
energy efficiency. The program leverages the smart meter data provided as a result of the 
Advanced Service Delivery Initiative (aka NV Energize). The impact of these smart 
thermostat programs results in energy efficiency savings that are incorporated into the base 
forecast, and DR peak demand reductions, which are included in the additional load 
forecast scenario further described in Section V. 
2. Sierra Commercial & Industrial - The program provides commercial customers a choice of 
demand responsive control technologies that provide peak demand reduction to the utility 
and cost savings to customers. The technology choices are designed to address the needs 
of diverse customer types from small businesses to large businesses, institutions and 
municipalities. For example, the program offers commercial smart thermostats, demand 
limiting controls, and control interfaces to customer equipment or building automation 
systems to help them manage energy and demand. These peak demand initiatives are 
detailed in the Demand Side plan narrative. 
3. Nevada Power Residential – This program provides newly enrolled customers with smart 
thermostats and also maintains an existing enrolled customer population and their legacy 
residential demand response devices. Customers benefit from thermostat hardware and 
software that optimizes the performance of residential heating and cooling systems for both 
dispatchable peak demand and year-round energy efficiency. The program leverages the 
smart meter data provided as a result of the Advanced Service Delivery Initiative (aka NV 
Energize). The impact of these smart thermostat programs results in energy efficiency 
savings that are incorporated into the base forecast, and DR peak demand reductions, which 
are included in the additional load forecast scenario further described in Section V. 
4. Nevada Power Commercial & Industrial – The program provides commercial customers a 
choice of demand responsive control technologies that provide peak demand reduction to 
the utility and cost savings to customers. The technology choices are designed to address 
the needs of diverse customer types from small businesses to large businesses, institutions 
and municipalities. For example, the program offers commercial smart thermostats, 
demand limiting controls, and control interfaces to customer equipment or building 
automation systems to help them manage energy and demand. These peak demand 
initiatives are detailed in the Demand Side plan narrative. 
For estimated DSM savings in this update, the forecast models are estimated using calendar month 
sales data which includes the impact of past DSM activity. In developing the forecast, the 
Companies recognize that there is significant efficiency embedded in the forecast even before 
adjusting for future DSM program savings. As the models are estimated over a period of increasing 
DSM program activity, the resulting baseline forecast assumes some level of continued DSM 
activity into the forecast period. 
Second, each year the EIA calibrates the forecasted end-use intensities to actual sales and appliance 
shipment data. The calibration process captures the impact DSM has had on both sales and 
46 
Page 98 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 99=====
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 47 of 89
appliance stock efficiency. Also, EIA attempts to capture DSM activity in the end-use models by 
incentivizing (reducing costs) of specific high-efficient technology options. As a result, the end￾use intensity forecasts assume “on-going” DSM activity through the forecast period. 
Tables LF-26 and LF-27 is a summary of the Nevada Power and Sierra historical incremental DSM 
savings by end-use. 
TABLE LF-26 
NEVADA POWER HISTORICAL DSM SAVINGS (MWH) 
TABLE LF-27 
SIERRA HISTORICAL DSM SAVINGS (MWH) 
System Losses 
In this forecast update, System losses are estimated on an hourly basis and added to the sales 
forecast to derive the System energy forecast. The Company’s methodology is based upon the 
National Economic Research Associates (“NERA”) marginal costing methodology and attempts 
to model line losses by voltage level across all hours of the year. Employing hourly losses reflects 
the varying impact that losses have on peak loads, in addition to the overall energy impacts across 
the year. 
47 
Page 99 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 100=====
 
 
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 48 of 89
The calculation begins with calculating the annual difference between historical System loads, 
metered at generation and transmission interconnection points, and the hourly class loads, which 
are based on data recorded at the customer meter. Using power flow loss study information from 
Transmission Planning and Distribution Planning departments, individual loss factors by voltage 
level (i.e. Transmission, Primary Distribution, and Secondary Distribution voltages) at the time of 
system peak are determined. Hourly loss estimates are then determined by hour based upon that 
hour’s load relative to the annual peak for each of three-years of historical information. For the 
2024 IRP Forecast, these historical estimates are then averaged by month, day of week and hour, 
and applied to the hourly sales in each forecast year over the 2025-2044 period. The percentages 
corresponding to the appropriate voltage level for each customer group are then multiplied by the 
forecasted sales. The result are hourly energy loss estimates for each company. These values are 
added to the sales forecast to derive the total System energy requirements. Table LF-28 
summarizes the annual GWh loss estimates incorporated into the 2024 IRP Forecast over the 2025-
2044 period. 
TABLE LF-28 
NEVADA POWER AND SIERRA LOSS ESTIMATES 
Company Use 
In this 2024 IRP Forecast update, Company Use sales are estimated using a five-year historical 
average amount for both Nevada Power (16 GWh) and Sierra (30 GWh), which is kept constant 
for the forecast period. Due to the large, expected sales growth at Sierra over the forecast period, 
48 
Page 100 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 101=====
 
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 49 of 89
the previous approach of estimating Company Use as a percent of sales was deemed to provide 
overestimated results. Therefore, this update maintains the levels of Company Use at these 
historical averages. During preparation of this filing, it was identified that the treatment of the 
Company Use accounts were inconsistent, based upon the individual meter data available. Some 
accounts were included in the C&I customer group sales, while other Company Use accounts were 
excluded in the general customer group forecasts. Due to the relatively small size of this impact, 
this change would not have an impact on the Companies’ preferred plan presented in this 
proceeding. The Company will work to develop a complete data set of all Company Use accounts 
for future forecast updates. 
49 
Page 101 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 102=====
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
IV. BASE FORECAST SUMMARY 
A. Sales Forecast Summary 
Table LF-29 present the summaries of sales by season for Nevada Power and Sierra over the 
2025-2044 period. The months of June through September are defined as summer for both 
companies. Winter is defined as all other months. 
TABLE LF-29 
NEVADA POWER AND SIERRA SEASONAL SALES (GWH) 
50 
Page 50 of 89
Page 102 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 103=====
 
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 51 of 89
Per NAC § 704.925(1), Tables LF-30 and LF-31 are summaries of seasonal sales for each 
Company for 2025-2044. 
TABLE LF-30 
NEVADA POWER SEASONAL SALES BY CLASS (GWH) 
51 
Page 103 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 104=====
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
TABLE LF-31 
SIERRA SEASONAL SALES BY CLASS (GWH) 
52 
Page 52 of 89
Page 104 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 105=====
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 53 of 89
Pursuant to §§ NAC 704.925(1), Table LF-32 provides summaries of the seasonal peak demand 
energy, and calculated load factors for Nevada Power and Sierra from 2025 to 2044. 
TABLE LF-32 
ANNUAL PEAK DEMAND, ENERGY, AND LOAD FACTOR FORECAST 
53 
Page 105 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 106=====
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 54 of 89
Pursuant to NAC §704.925(1), Tables LF-34 and LF-35 show the coincident peak MW for both 
the summer and winter peak for both companies by customer group. 
TABLE LF-33 
NEVADA POWER CLASS PEAK (MW) DEMANDS 
TABLE LF-34 
SIERRA CLASS PEAK (MW) DEMANDS 
54 
Page 106 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 107=====
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 55 of 89
Figures LF-6, LF-7, and LF-8 show the load duration curves (“LDC”) for Nevada Power and Sierra 
for the years 2025, 2030, 2035, 2040, and 2044 as required by NAC § 704.925(9). LDCs rank the 
load within each hour across the year, and present values from the peak load to the lowest load 
hour. 
FIGURE LF-6 
NV ENERGY LOAD DURATION CURVE 
55 
Page 107 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 108=====
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
FIGURE LF-7 
Page 56 of 89
NEVADA POWER LOAD DURATION CURVE 
FIGURE LF-8 
SIERRA LOAD DURATION CURVE 
56 
Page 108 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 109=====
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 57 of 89
B. Customer Forecast Summary 
Table LF-35 is a summary of the residential customers and Small C&I customers by company 
from 2015-2044. Sierra Small C&I customer counts do not include irrigation customers. 
TABLE LF-35 
HISTORY AND FORECAST OF RESIDENTIAL AND SMALL C&I CUSTOMERS 
57 
Page 109 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 110=====
 
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 58 of 89
C. NEM Forecast Summary 
Tables LF-36 and LF-37 summarize forecasted outlooks related to NEM customer growth, 
installed capacity, and system output. Non-solar behind-the-meter generation accounted for a 
negligible fraction of total customer-generated energy, at approximately 0.15% of total Nevada 
NEM customers as of June 2023. Additionally, growth in non-solar customers has decreased, with 
no new customer after 2016 based on June 2023 information. Based on this information, unless 
otherwise stated, NEM information presented below refers to solar customers. 
TABLE LF-36 
NEVADA POWER NEM CUSTOMERS, CAPACITY, AND SYSTEM OUTPUT 
58 
Page 110 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 111=====
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
TABLE LF-37 
SIERRA NEM CUSTOMERS, CAPACITY, AND SYSTEM OUTPUT 
Page 59 of 89
59 
Page 111 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 112=====
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 60 of 89
Pursuant to NAC § 704.925(5), Table LF-38 summarizes the total generation and received energy 
coincident with the system peaks for Nevada Power and Sierra. 
TABLE LF-38 
NEVADA POWER AND SIERRA NEM CUSTOMER COINCIDENT PEAK 
GENERATION 
60 
Page 112 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 113=====
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 61 of 89
D. DSM sales reductions 
Pursuant to NAC § 704.925(2), Tables LF-39 and LF-40 are summaries of the sales reductions 
included in the base forecast prior to DSM measures, but after NEM installation reductions are 
included. 
TABLE LF-39 
NEVADA POWER SALES BY CLASS BEFORE DSM REDUCTIONS BUT AFTER 
NEM INSTALLATION REDUCTIONS (GWH) 
61 
Page 113 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 114=====
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
TABLE LF-40 
SIERRA SALES BY CLASS BEFORE DSM REDUCTIONS BUT AFTER NEM 
INSTALLATION REDUCTIONS (GWH) 
Page 62 of 89
62 
Page 114 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 115=====
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 63 of 89
Pursuant to NAC § 704.925(2), Tables LF-41 and LF-42 are summaries of the energy efficiency 
measures for the DR and EE programs included in the base forecast. As previously mentioned, the 
DR event savings are included in this 2024 IRP filing as a system resource and are therefore 
reflected in the L&R tables of the Companies. 
TABLE LF-41 
NEVADA POWER DSM AND EE SAVINGS BY CUSTOMER GROUP 
63 
Page 115 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 116=====
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
TABLE LF-42 
SIERRA DSM AND EE SAVINGS BY CUSTOMER GROUP 
64 
Page 64 of 89
Page 116 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 117=====
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 65 of 89
Tables LF-43 and LF-44 are a comparison of the updated plan and those presented in the 2021 
IRPA 3rd Forecast. The 2021 IRPA 3rd Forecast values exclude DR savings. 
TABLE LF-43 
NEVADA POWER DSM SAVINGS COMPARISON (GWH) 
TABLE LF-44 
SIERRA DSM SAVINGS COMPARISON (GWH) 
65 
Page 117 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 118=====
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 66 of 89
E. Major Projects Sales Forecast Summary 
Table LF-45 summarizes the sales and peak MW growth of the Major Project loads included in 
the 2024 IRP Forecast. 
TABLE LF-45 
MAJOR PROJECTS SUMMARY 
66 
Page 118 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 119=====
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 67 of 89
Table LF-46 summarizes the Major Projects sales growth by type of customer for both Nevada 
Power and Sierra. 
TABLE LF-46 
MAJOR PROJECTS BY TYPE 
67 
Page 119 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 120=====
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 68 of 89
F. Electric Vehicle Sales Forecast Summary 
Tables LF-47 summarizes the annual EVs by region and overall residential and commercial EV 
GWh sales. Table LF-48 compares to the EV estimates in the 2021 IRPA 3rd Forecast. 
TABLE LF-47 
EV FORECAST SUMMARY 
68 
Page 120 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 121=====
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
TABLE LF-48 
EV FORECAST COMPARISON 
Page 69 of 89
69 
Page 121 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 122=====
 
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 70 of 89
V. LOAD FORECAST SCENARIOS 
A. Low and High Load Scenarios 
Pursuant to NAC § 704.9225(1), additional low and high load scenario forecasts are required. In 
the 2024 IRP Forecast update, the low load forecast scenario includes the following modifications: 
1. The use of the pessimistic population and economic forecasts for Nevada. 
2. Incorporated an average 14% growth rate for incremental EV sales from the Base forecast, 
until 2046 when the sales are set equal to the base forecast. This results in lower forecasted 
EV sales in earlier years from those in the base forecast. 
3. Removal of all loads from those major projects currently in the Study Phase. 
4. Forecasting NEM customer installations using only the AB405 Tranche 4 customer growth 
rates. This results in higher adoption rates of NEM customer installations, and 
corresponding reductions in sales. 
The high load forecast scenario includes the following modifications: 
1. The use of the optimistic population and economic forecasts for Nevada. 
2. Lower reductions to customer requested capacity amounts, and resulting sales, for Study 
Phase projects. Overall adjustment lowered from 85 percent to 70 percent reduction. 
Tables LF-49 and LF-50 summarize the energy, summer peak demand, economics, class sales and 
customers for the Nevada Power and Sierra load forecast scenarios. 
TABLE LF-49 
NEVADA POWER LOW, BASE, AND HIGH SCENARIOS 
LOAD FORECAST PEAK DEMAND (MW) AND SYSTEM ENERGY (GWH) 
70 
Page 122 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 123=====
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
TABLE LF-50 
SIERRA LOW, BASE AND HIGH SCENARIOS 
LOAD FORECAST PEAK DEMAND (MW) AND SYSTEM ENERGY (GWH) 
Page 71 of 89
71 
Page 123 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 124=====
 
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 72 of 89
Tables LF-51 and LF-52 are summaries of the economic data used for the Base, High and Low 
load forecast scenarios. 
TABLE LF-51 
NEVADA POWER SCENARIO ECONOMIC DATA 
72 
Page 124 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 125=====
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
TABLE LF-52 
SIERRA SCENARIO ECONOMIC DATA 
Page 73 of 89
73 
Page 125 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 126=====
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 74 of 89
Tables LF-53 and LF-54 summarize the employment indices used for each scenario for Nevada 
Power and Sierra. 
TABLE LF-53 
NEVADA POWER EMPLOYMENT INDICES SCENARIOS 
TABLE LF-54 
SIERRA EMPLOYMENT INDICES SCENARIOS 
74 
Page 126 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 127=====
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
TABLE LF-55 
LOW AND HIGH SCENARIO CUSTOMER COUNTS 
Page 75 of 89
75 
Page 127 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 128=====
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 76 of 89
B. Hot Summer/Cold Winter (HSCW) Scenarios 
An additional scenario modifying the load forecast incorporates a Hot Summer/Cold Winter 
weather scenario. The weather adjustment uses the highest average daily summer temperature, and 
coldest average daily winter temperature, over the past ten years to develop a more extreme 
weather scenario. In this 2024 IRP Forecast update, the HSCW adjustments for all months across 
the year have been included as each month has a distinct coefficient with normalized weather. This 
is a change from the 2021 IRPA 3rd Forecast in which the Spring and Fall months were not adjusted 
for the same scenario. Table LF-56 compares the change in annual MW peak for Nevada Power 
and Sierra between the base load forecast and the HSCW modified forecast. 
TABLE LF-56 
HOT SUMMER/COLD WINTER FORECAST 
ANNUAL MW PEAK COMPARISON 
76 
Page 128 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 129=====
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 77 of 89
Table LF-57 compares the change in annual sales for Nevada Power and Sierra between the base 
load forecast and the HSCW modified forecast. 
TABLE LF-57 
HOT SUMMER/COLD WINTER FORECAST 
ANNUAL GWH ENERGY COMPARISON 
77 
Page 129 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 130=====
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 78 of 89
C. One-in-Ten Transmission Forecast Scenario 
An additional load forecast scenario is based upon a 1 in 10 weather scenario, which incorporates 
the highest average daily summer temperature over the past ten years, to develop a more extreme 
weather scenario. Table LF-58 is a summary of the peak demand forecasts compared to the base 
peak forecasts. 
TABLE LF-58 
1 IN 10 YEAR PEAK TEMPERATURE PEAK DEMANDS (MW) 
78 
Page 130 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 131=====
 
 
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 79 of 89
D. Preferred Plan DSM Scenarios 
In this forecast update, the base forecast includes DSM program savings at the current 1.1 percent 
of weather-normalized sales statewide goal. Three incremental load forecast scenarios were 
created to include the proposed DSM savings as identified in the DSM Plan, another that was 
increased 20 percent, and one with lower DSM measures related to Directive-5 in the Commission 
Order in Docket Nos. 23-06044 and 23-06045. Further detail on the program adoption rates and 
savings level are detailed in the DSM Plan. Table LF-59 and LF-60 summarizes the cumulative 
sales reductions of these DSM scenario forecasts for Nevada Power and Sierra. 
TABLE LF-59 
NEVADA POWER PREFERRED DSM SALES SAVINGS 
79 
Page 131 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 132=====
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
TABLE LF-60 
SIERRA PREFERRED DSM SALES SAVINGS 
Page 80 of 89
80 
Page 132 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 133=====
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 81 of 89
Table LF-59 and LF-60 summarizes the peak reductions of these Preferred DSM scenario forecasts 
for Nevada Power and Sierra. 
TABLE LF-61 
NEVADA POWER PREFERRED DSM PEAK MW REDUCTIONS 
BY CUSTOMER GROUP 
81 
Page 133 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 134=====
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
TABLE LF-62 
SIERRA PREFERRED DSM PEAK MW REDUCTIONS 
BY CUSTOMER GROUP 
Page 82 of 89
82 
Page 134 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 135=====
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 83 of 89
E. Forecast excluding Eligible 704B Loads 
The next scenario is a forecast excluding the eligible loads for those Large C&I customers who 
decide to exit bundled service and choose service from another provider during the 2025-2027 
period. Pursuant to subsection 6 of NRS 704.741, the Companies are required to include in each 
triennial Joint IRP filing a proposal for annual limits on the total amount of energy and capacity 
that eligible NRS Chapter 704B Large C&I customers may be authorized to purchase from 
providers of new electric resources during the three-year action plan period. The proposal begins 
with fifty percent of Large C&I load growth over the three-year action plan period and must be a 
product of a sensitivity analysis that, at a minimum, addresses load growth, import capacity, 
system constraints and the effect of eligible customers purchasing less energy and capacity than 
authorized by the proposed annual limit. 
The total population of customers, premises and annual sales that could potentially be eligible for 
this 704B process is summarized in Table LF-63 for both Nevada Power and Sierra. 
TABLE LF-63 
NEVADA POWER AND SIERRA 704B ELIGIBLE LOAD 
83 
Page 135 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 136=====
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 84 of 89
Accordingly, in order to determine the amount of load eligible to purchase energy from other 
providers for the 2025-2027 action plan period, NV Energy created an additional forecast scenario 
that removes the total MWh sales determined to be eligible. Based on the analysis, the limit for 
the three-year action plan period for Nevada Power is proposed to be set at 260,662 MWh annually. 
Sierra’s limit remains unchanged at zero MW, due to continued system import capacity constraints 
on the system. 
The first step, following the methodology approved in the 2021 Joint IRP (Docket No. 21-06001), 
a three-year average of year-end loads from 2021-2023 are considered as the base loads in order 
to determine the total load growth eligible for the 704B process. The resulting loads are used to 
determine the total eligible load growth. NV Energy anticipates that, over the three-year action 
plan period (January 2025 to December 2027), Large C&I loads are anticipated to increase by 
521,324 MWh (59.5 MW) for Nevada Power and by 2,448,562 MWh (279.5 MW) for Sierra. 
Next, the calculations exclude customers on special pricing tariffs for both Nevada Power and 
Sierra loads. The resulting loads are subtracted from the historical base load comparison to 
determine the total eligible load growth. Applying the maximum annual limits prescribed by the 
proposed regulation, without applying any of the sensitivity analysis factors, yields 260,662 MWh 
(29.8 MW) total action plan period limit for Nevada Power and 1,224,281 MWh (139.8 MW) for 
Sierra. 
During the 2025-2027 action plan period, severe import capacity constraints are anticipated to 
continue at Sierra. Currently, Sierra has 681 MW of import transmission service requests placed 
in a reservation queue for third-party network customers. Sierra is not projected to satisfy this 
outstanding import capacity need during the action plan period. Greenlink West increases Sierra’s 
import capacity by 725 MW into Northern Nevada, of which 44 MW will be allocated to Sierra’s 
existing 623 MW native load capacity requirements after the 681 MW of network customer 
reservations are met. In 2029, Greenlink North increases Sierra’s import capacity by an additional 
800 MW and will provide the remaining 579 MW for native load capacity. The remaining 221 
MW will be allocated to native load requirements in 2032. Thus, due to the current import capacity 
constraints, analysis of this factor places the annual limits for Sierra for the action plan period at 
zero MW. Nevada Power’s available import capacity is 3,214 MW. In light of this ample open 
import capacity, NV Energy does not propose to impose any limits on the amount of energy and 
capacity available to eligible 704B applicants on account of import capacity restrictions. 
84 
Page 136 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 137=====
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 85 of 89
Table LF-64 summarizes the calculation of the amount of load eligible, with the additional 
considerations that modify the annual limits related to load growth, for Nevada Power. Table LF￾65 provides the same information for Sierra. 
TABLE LF-64 
NEVADA POWER 704B ELIGIBLE LOAD LIMIT 
85 
Page 137 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 138=====
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
TABLE LF-65 
SIERRA PACIFIC 704B ELIGIBLE LOAD LIMIT 
Page 86 of 89
86 
Page 138 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 139=====
 
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Table LF-66 summarizes the impact of the exit of the proposed annual limits on the base forecast 
sales and peak MW during the 2025-2027 period for both Nevada Power and Sierra. As previously 
noted, Sierra’s load forecast is not modified due to import capacity constraints. 
TABLE LF-66 
MODIFIED FORECAST EXCLUDING 704B ANNUAL LIMITS 
Page 87 of 89
NV Energy proposes that the annual limits for Nevada Power for the 2025-2027 action plan period 
be set at the maximum allowable level of 260,662 MWh (approx. 29.8 MW). This total action plan 
annual limits amount can be made available in any number of tranche combinations: broken down 
equally among each of the three years (9.9 MW per year), front loaded, or back loaded. To allow 
the entire limit to leave at the beginning of the period, and to make the calculation of the impact 
on remaining customers simpler, Nevada Power proposes that the entire annual limits amount (29.8 
MW) be available in the first year of the action plan. Considering the above calculations and NV 
Energy’s proposed limit for Nevada Power, the effect of eligible customers purchasing less energy 
and capacity than authorized by the proposed annual limits would be negligible.7 
In the case of eligible customers located in Nevada Power’s service territory purchasing less energy 
and capacity than authorized by the proposed annual limits, the maximum MW loads would have 
to be served in addition to the native load forecasted in this 2024 Joint IRP. Considering Nevada 
Power’s anticipated peak loads and reserve margin, Nevada Power expects that it will be able to 
serve the additional load with minimal effect on rates paid by its customers and no effect on the 
7 As provided for in the proposed regulations, if the proposed annual limit is not fully used in the first year of the 
action plan, the unused amount will be carried forward to the second and/or third years of the action plan. 
87 
Page 139 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 140=====
 
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
reliability of service. Due to the relatively small amount of the proposed annual limits, the removal 
of these loads from the forecast results in the same preferred plan as if the loads were included.8 
In order to determine the impact of this eligible load reduction, a modified forecast spreads the 
eligible sales to hours across the year following the Large C&I customer group loads at Nevada 
Power. These loads are then subtracted from the base forecast, and ran through Resource Planning 
models, in order to determine the cost impact. These differences are then used to determine the 
rates that must be paid by these customers during their transition period. 
Page 88 of 89
8 The Companies seek guidance from the Commission as to whether, in future filings, the preferred plan should be 
built off the load forecast with or without the proposed annual limits. The Companies’ concerns lay with a scenario in 
which the Commission authorizes annual limits significantly different from the proposed and the change materially 
alters the analysis performed for Companies’ preferred or alternate plans. 
88 
Page 140 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 141=====
 
 
 
 
Technical Appendix LF-1 – 2024 IRP 
Page 89 of 89
VI. NRS Chapter 704B Transition Rates for 2025-2027 Action Plan Period 
Once the 704B modified load forecast is compared to the base forecast, the resulting difference in 
system costs are used to develop the rates that these customers will pay during their three-year 
transition period to 704B status. The rate calculations follow the steps detailed in the Transition 
Charge/Credit Master Formula document filed with the Commission as Attachment 3 on May 8, 
2020 in Docket No. 19-06029. The regulations include the provisions that these customers will 
continue to pay the fully bundled Base Tariff General Rates (“BTGR”) for a three-year period, and 
a rate for the Base Tariff Energy Rate excluding specific renewables contracts (“Net Differential 
Energy Rate”) for a three-year period. In addition, they will receive a variable O&M credit/charge 
depending on the estimated change in these variable costs. Next, the incremental Renewable BTER 
(“R-BTER”) rate and other public policy program rates shall be included on an ongoing basis for 
these customer’s bills. Further, additional costs related to Decommissioning and Remediation costs 
and Regulatory Asset charges may be imposed by the Commission for customers choosing to exit 
bundled service for a third-party energy provider. 
Calculations for the Net Differential Energy Rate were performed as follows: 
• Calculate the difference in average monthly Fuel & Purchased Power (“F&PP”) system 
costs over the action plan period between the base case expansion plan and the change case 
plan system costs modelled in PLEXOS. 
• Once the difference is calculated, the portion of the base tariff energy rate impact associated 
with the current and ongoing legislatively mandated public policy costs affecting the net 
BTER include, without limitation: 
o The out-of-money costs of long-term renewable contracts. 
o Non bypassable costs attributed to public policies applicable to eligible customers. 
• Next, the costs associated with the R-BTER renewable costs and other non-bypassable 
costs to the annual limits are subtracted from the base tariff energy rate system impact cost 
to determine the net base tariff energy rate cost. 
• This adjusted amount is then divided by the energy consumption in kilowatt-hours from 
the annual limits in the production cost model which derives the net base tariff energy rate. 
The Variable O&M credit is calculated as the overall difference in variable O&M costs between 
the base case and the change case. It will be applied on a volumetric basis and reflects the reduction 
in variable O&M costs related to the exit of the eligible loads from bundled service. 
The results of the calculations demonstrate that Nevada Power customers choosing to exit the 
system will pay the Net Deferential Energy Rate of $0.04165 per kWh during their applicable 
three-year transition period which will be partially offset by the $-0.00015 per kWh variable O&M 
costs credit. In addition, such customers will pay other costs required by law including the Base 
Tariff Energy Rate for the transmission period and the then-current R-BTER rate (which currently 
stands at $0.00404 as filed in Docket No. 24-05014) and will be updated quarterly. 
89 
Page 141 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 142=====
LF-2 
Page 142 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 143=====
 
LF-2
Page 1 of 9
Nevada County Population Projections
2022 to 2041
Prepared By:
Matthew F. Lawton, PMP, GISP
Nevada State Demographer
Nevada Department of Taxation
Reno Office:
4600 Kietzke Lane, L-235, Reno, NV 89502
(Direct) (775) 687-9961
(Phone) (775) 687-9999
(Fax) (775) 688-1303
lawton@tax.state.nv.us
Carson City Office:
1550 College Parkway, Ste 115, Carson City, NV 89706
(Phone) (775) 684-2000
(Fax) (775) 684-2020
Website:
http://tax.nv.gov/Publications/Population_Statistics_and_Reports/
October 1, 2022
Page 143 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 144=====
 
 
 
 
 
LF-2
Page 2 of 9
Introduction to the 2022 Population Projections
The following is the 2022 edition of the 20-year population projections for Nevada based on the state
and county population estimates for July 1, 2021, as certified by the Governor on March 1, 2022. The
20-year population projections are published each October by the Nevada State Demographer in
accordance with NRS 360.289 pertaining to the annual reports of projected population of counties. The
Regional Economic Models, Inc. (REMI) model v3.0.0 was used to project how the population might
change given demographic and economic factors.
The REMI model provides information for all 17 Nevada counties by 23 major economic sectors. It
looks at the interaction between the economic and demographic characteristics within a county, as 
well as the dynamic economic and demographic relationships between the 17 counties and the United 
States as a whole. The 20-year projections will change each year as data becomes available or is 
revised.
The REMI model provides a standard national and regional control forecast that can be considered an 
“out of the box” model (the model as shipped with no additional changes from the user). The v3.0.0
model relies on sector employment data for the 17 Nevada counties sourced from the Bureau of 
Economic Analysis (BEA) CAEMP25N data series published through 2020 (updated November 16,
2021). To further refine the model with actual sector employment change rates through 2021, sector
employment data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) Quarterly Census of Employment and
Wages (QCEW) was compared between the 2nd Quarter of 2020 to the 2nd Quarter of 2021 for the
nation and for each county. These change rates were then applied in the REMI model to provide a 
realistic adjustment to the 2021 sector employment forecasts. Employment forecasts for current and
upcoming economic development projects across the state were also received from the Governor’s 
Office of Economic Development (GOED) and the various regional development authorities. These
forecasts were used to further adjust the model inputs. Lastly, a series of change rates incorporating
the above adjustments were applied to the baseline population from the 2021 Governor’s certified
estimates to project state and county population totals through 2041.
These projections will be used as the control populations for the age, sex, race and Hispanic origin 
projections. A summary table is provided on the next page, followed by full projections by county at
the end of this document.
Risks to these projections for consideration:
Employment sectors in some counties experienced stronger recovery from COVID pandemic effects
between 2020 to 2021 than were forecast in the out-of-the-box REMI model, which could create
inflated population growth rates early in the time series.
Housing availability in some counties may be a limiting factor which is not represented in this
model and could inhibit the long-term growth rates presented.
The REMI model may not entirely predict employee commuting patterns, especially in rural areas,
which could impact the population distribution among adjacent counties.
Changes in international migration policy and fluctuating domestic migration patterns should be
considered when evaluating long-term population outcomes.
Lingering pandemic effects, global conflict, resource limitations, and recent economic volatility may
have impacts to long-term population modeling that are yet to be understood.
Nevada County Population Projections 2022 to 2041 1
Page 144 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 145=====
 
 
 
 
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
2030
2031
2032
2033
2034
20-Year Population Projections Summary
LF-2
Page 3 of 9
†
Carson City 57,073 57,446 57,787 58,093 58,394 58,728 59,082
Churchill 26,310 26,793 27,271 27,662 28,014 28,259 28,523
Clark 2,320,551 2,366,773 2,409,815 2,448,017 2,483,363 2,515,936 2,544,437
Douglas 49,661 50,076 50,490 50,877 51,260 51,670 52,083
Elko 54,546 54,959 55,314 55,643 55,902 56,230 56,630
Esmeralda 1,000 1,035 1,053 1,049 1,047 1,046 1,046
Eureka 1,898 1,959 2,032 2,106 2,181 2,261 2,349
Humboldt 17,202 17,526 17,817 18,092 18,309 18,543 18,766
Lander 6,195 6,253 6,315 6,375 6,430 6,506 6,603
Lincoln 5,188 5,093 4,999 4,903 4,816 4,738 4,672
Lyon 58,051 59,035 59,832 60,501 61,076 61,610 62,145
Mineral 4,826 4,894 4,958 5,008 5,060 5,110 5,162
Nye 49,289 49,803 50,316 50,828 51,328 51,857 52,420
Pershing 6,984 7,071 7,160 7,254 7,319 7,387 7,463
Storey 4,359 4,475 4,593 4,729 4,859 5,014 5,198
Washoe 485,113 496,124 505,821 514,300 521,603 528,479 535,016
White Pine 10,293 10,472 10,644 10,805 10,946 11,107 11,289
State Total* 3,158,539 3,219,785 3,276,217 3,326,241 3,371,906 3,414,482 3,452,884
Carson City 59,382 59,640 59,915 60,171 60,418 60,639 60,837
Churchill 28,782 29,029 29,281 29,546 29,809 30,079 30,338
Clark 2,568,658 2,588,178 2,604,224 2,618,071 2,630,799 2,642,651 2,654,388
Douglas 52,426 52,723 52,949 53,136 53,290 53,415 53,530
Elko 57,039 57,521 58,065 58,661 59,318 60,004 60,713
Esmeralda 1,048 1,048 1,052 1,056 1,064 1,073 1,086
Eureka 2,445 2,546 2,654 2,764 2,880 2,996 3,115
Humboldt 18,989 19,239 19,519 19,825 20,159 20,513 20,885
Lander 6,711 6,827 6,962 7,108 7,260 7,418 7,578
Lincoln 4,615 4,569 4,535 4,505 4,482 4,464 4,445
Lyon 62,598 63,010 63,450 63,883 64,302 64,701 65,107
Mineral 5,209 5,256 5,304 5,355 5,408 5,461 5,517
Nye 52,998 53,534 54,116 54,710 55,322 55,951 56,591
Pershing 7,540 7,622 7,714 7,813 7,914 8,023 8,135
Storey 5,357 5,527 5,695 5,862 6,033 6,203 6,375
Washoe 539,931 544,545 548,538 552,272 555,810 559,169 562,372
White Pine 11,479 11,686 11,917 12,169 12,427 12,697 12,971
State Total* 3,485,208 3,512,499 3,535,890 3,556,905 3,576,696 3,595,456 3,613,982
*Totals may not sum precisely due to rounding
†2021 Governor's CerƟfied Series PopulaƟon EsƟmates
Nevada County Population Projections 2022 to 2041 2
Page 145 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 146=====
 
 
 
 
2035
2036
2037
2038
2039
2040
2041
20-Year Population Projections Summary (cont'd)
LF-2
Page 4 of 9
Carson City 61,011 61,169 61,306 61,427 61,525 61,606 61,674
Churchill 30,585 30,819 31,038 31,250 31,438 31,607 31,767
Clark 2,666,285 2,678,350 2,690,270 2,702,434 2,714,439 2,726,390 2,737,979
Douglas 53,614 53,675 53,702 53,711 53,688 53,633 53,549
Elko 61,433 62,160 62,897 63,627 64,372 65,136 65,916
Esmeralda 1,100 1,114 1,129 1,144 1,159 1,175 1,191
Eureka 3,233 3,350 3,463 3,574 3,684 3,790 3,894
Humboldt 21,262 21,652 22,050 22,455 22,858 23,259 23,666
Lander 7,746 7,921 8,095 8,272 8,455 8,640 8,826
Lincoln 4,427 4,411 4,396 4,379 4,364 4,350 4,334
Lyon 65,500 65,889 66,264 66,629 66,986 67,332 67,678
Mineral 5,581 5,652 5,725 5,807 5,895 5,986 6,080
Nye 57,239 57,893 58,599 59,367 60,197 61,070 61,992
Pershing 8,252 8,372 8,499 8,628 8,763 8,899 9,037
Storey 6,543 6,713 6,881 7,045 7,207 7,363 7,517
Washoe 565,418 568,253 570,936 573,490 575,864 578,105 580,230
White Pine 13,251 13,535 13,825 14,117 14,411 14,705 15,006
State Total* 3,632,480 3,650,928 3,669,075 3,687,356 3,705,301 3,723,046 3,740,336
*Totals may not sum precisely due to rounding
†2021 Governor's CerƟfied Series PopulaƟon EsƟmates
Nevada County Population Projections 2022 to 2041 3
Page 146 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 147=====
 
 
 
 
 
 
LF-2
Page 5 of 9
20-Year Population Projections: Carson City 20-Year Population Projections: Churchill County
Year Population Change Amt Change %
2021† 57,073
2022 57,446 373 0.7%
2023 57,787 341 0.6%
2024 58,093 306 0.5%
2025 58,394 301 0.5%
2026 58,728 334 0.6%
2027 59,082 354 0.6%
2028 59,382 300 0.5%
2029 59,640 258 0.4%
2030 59,915 275 0.5%
2031 60,171 256 0.4%
2032 60,418 247 0.4%
2033 60,639 221 0.4%
2034 60,837 198 0.3%
2035 61,011 174 0.3%
2036 61,169 158 0.3%
2037 61,306 137 0.2%
2038 61,427 121 0.2%
2039 61,525 98 0.2%
2040 61,606 81 0.1%
2041 61,674 68 0.1%
20-Year Population Projections: Clark County
Year Population Change Amt Change %
2021† 26,310
2022 26,793 483 1.8%
2023 27,271 478 1.8%
2024 27,662 391 1.4%
2025 28,014 352 1.3%
2026 28,259 245 0.9%
2027 28,523 264 0.9%
2028 28,782 259 0.9%
2029 29,029 247 0.9%
2030 29,281 252 0.9%
2031 29,546 265 0.9%
2032 29,809 263 0.9%
2033 30,079 270 0.9%
2034 30,338 259 0.9%
2035 30,585 247 0.8%
2036 30,819 234 0.8%
2037 31,038 219 0.7%
2038 31,250 212 0.7%
2039 31,438 188 0.6%
2040 31,607 169 0.5%
2041 31,767 160 0.5%
20-Year Population Projections: Douglas County
Year Population Change Amt Change %
2021† 2,320,551
2022 2,366,773 46,222 2.0%
2023 2,409,815 43,042 1.8%
2024 2,448,017 38,202 1.6%
2025 2,483,363 35,346 1.4%
2026 2,515,936 32,573 1.3%
2027 2,544,437 28,501 1.1%
2028 2,568,658 24,221 1.0%
2029 2,588,178 19,520 0.8%
2030 2,604,224 16,046 0.6%
2031 2,618,071 13,847 0.5%
2032 2,630,799 12,728 0.5%
2033 2,642,651 11,852 0.5%
2034 2,654,388 11,737 0.4%
2035 2,666,285 11,897 0.4%
2036 2,678,350 12,065 0.5%
2037 2,690,270 11,920 0.4%
2038 2,702,434 12,164 0.5%
2039 2,714,439 12,005 0.4%
2040 2,726,390 11,951 0.4%
2041 2,737,979 11,589 0.4%
Year Population Change Amt Change %
2021†
2022
2023
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
2030
2031
2032
2033
2034
2035
2036
2037
2038
2039
2040
2041
†2021 Governor's CerƟfied Series PopulaƟon EsƟmates
49,661
50,076 415 0.8%
50,490
50,877
51,260
51,670
52,083
52,426
52,723
52,949
53,136
53,290
53,415
53,530
53,614
53,675
53,702
53,711
53,688
53,633
53,549
414 0.8%
387 0.8%
383 0.8%
410 0.8%
413 0.8%
343 0.7%
297 0.6%
226 0.4%
187 0.4%
154 0.3%
125 0.2%
115 0.2%
84 0.2%
61 0.1%
27 0.1%
9 0.0%
-23 0.0%
-55 -0.1%
-84 -0.2%
Nevada County Population Projections 2022 to 2041 4
Page 147 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 148=====
 
 
 
 
LF-2
Page 6 of 9
20-Year Population Projections: Elko County 20-Year Population Projections: Esmeralda County
Year Population Change Amt Change %
2021† 54,546
2022 54,959 413 0.8%
2023 55,314 355 0.6%
2024 55,643 329 0.6%
2025 55,902 259 0.5%
2026 56,230 328 0.6%
2027 56,630 400 0.7%
2028 57,039 409 0.7%
2029 57,521 482 0.8%
2030 58,065 544 0.9%
2031 58,661 596 1.0%
2032 59,318 657 1.1%
2033 60,004 686 1.2%
2034 60,713 709 1.2%
2035 61,433 720 1.2%
2036 62,160 727 1.2%
2037 62,897 737 1.2%
2038 63,627 730 1.2%
2039 64,372 745 1.2%
2040 65,136 764 1.2%
2041 65,916 780 1.2%
Year Population Change Amt Change %
2021† 1,000
2022 1,035 35 3.5%
2023 1,053 18 1.7%
2024 1,049 -4 -0.4%
2025 1,047 -2 -0.2%
2026 1,046 -1 -0.1%
2027 1,046 0 0.0%
2028 1,048 2 0.2%
2029 1,048 0 0.0%
2030 1,052 4 0.4%
2031 1,056 4 0.4%
2032 1,064 8 0.8%
2033 1,073 9 0.8%
2034 1,086 13 1.2%
2035 1,100 14 1.3%
2036 1,114 14 1.3%
2037 1,129 15 1.3%
2038 1,144 15 1.3%
2039 1,159 15 1.3%
2040 1,175 16 1.4%
2041 1,191 16 1.4%
20-Year Population Projections: Eureka County 20-Year Population Projections: Humboldt County
Year Population Change Amt Change %
2021† 1,898
2022 1,959 61 3.2%
2023 2,032 73 3.7%
2024 2,106 74 3.6%
2025 2,181 75 3.6%
2026 2,261 80 3.7%
2027 2,349 88 3.9%
2028 2,445 96 4.1%
2029 2,546 101 4.1%
2030 2,654 108 4.2%
2031 2,764 110 4.1%
2032 2,880 116 4.2%
2033 2,996 116 4.0%
2034 3,115 119 4.0%
2035 3,233 118 3.8%
2036 3,350 117 3.6%
2037 3,463 113 3.4%
2038 3,574 111 3.2%
2039 3,684 110 3.1%
2040 3,790 106 2.9%
2041 3,894 104 2.7%
Year Population Change Amt Change %
2021†
2022
2023
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
2030
2031
2032
2033
2034
2035
2036
2037
2038
2039
2040
2041
†2021 Governor's CerƟfied Series PopulaƟon EsƟmates
17,202
17,526 324 1.9%
17,817
18,092
18,309
18,543
18,766
18,989
19,239
19,519
19,825
20,159
20,513
20,885
21,262
21,652
22,050
22,455
22,858
23,259
23,666
291 1.7%
275 1.5%
217 1.2%
234 1.3%
223 1.2%
223 1.2%
250 1.3%
280 1.5%
306 1.6%
334 1.7%
354 1.8%
372 1.8%
377 1.8%
390 1.8%
398 1.8%
405 1.8%
403 1.8%
401 1.8%
407 1.7%
Nevada County Population Projections 2022 to 2041 5
Page 148 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 149=====
 
 
 
 
LF-2
Page 7 of 9
20-Year Population Projections: Lander County 20-Year Population Projections: Lincoln County
Year Population Change Amt Change %
2021† 6,195
2022 6,253 58 0.9%
2023 6,315 62 1.0%
2024 6,375 60 1.0%
2025 6,430 55 0.9%
2026 6,506 76 1.2%
2027 6,603 97 1.5%
2028 6,711 108 1.6%
2029 6,827 116 1.7%
2030 6,962 135 2.0%
2031 7,108 146 2.1%
2032 7,260 152 2.1%
2033 7,418 158 2.2%
2034 7,578 160 2.2%
2035 7,746 168 2.2%
2036 7,921 175 2.3%
2037 8,095 174 2.2%
2038 8,272 177 2.2%
2039 8,455 183 2.2%
2040 8,640 185 2.2%
2041 8,826 186 2.2%
Year Population Change Amt Change %
2021† 5,188
2022 5,093 -95 -1.8%
2023 4,999 -94 -1.8%
2024 4,903 -96 -1.9%
2025 4,816 -87 -1.8%
2026 4,738 -78 -1.6%
2027 4,672 -66 -1.4%
2028 4,615 -57 -1.2%
2029 4,569 -46 -1.0%
2030 4,535 -34 -0.7%
2031 4,505 -30 -0.7%
2032 4,482 -23 -0.5%
2033 4,464 -18 -0.4%
2034 4,445 -19 -0.4%
2035 4,427 -18 -0.4%
2036 4,411 -16 -0.4%
2037 4,396 -15 -0.3%
2038 4,379 -17 -0.4%
2039 4,364 -15 -0.3%
2040 4,350 -14 -0.3%
2041 4,334 -16 -0.4%
20-Year Population Projections: Lyon County 20-Year Population Projections: Mineral County
Year Population Change Amt Change %
2021† 58,051
2022 59,035 984 1.7%
2023 59,832 797 1.4%
2024 60,501 669 1.1%
2025 61,076 575 1.0%
2026 61,610 534 0.9%
2027 62,145 535 0.9%
2028 62,598 453 0.7%
2029 63,010 412 0.7%
2030 63,450 440 0.7%
2031 63,883 433 0.7%
2032 64,302 419 0.7%
2033 64,701 399 0.6%
2034 65,107 406 0.6%
2035 65,500 393 0.6%
2036 65,889 389 0.6%
2037 66,264 375 0.6%
2038 66,629 365 0.6%
2039 66,986 357 0.5%
2040 67,332 346 0.5%
2041 67,678 346 0.5%
Year Population Change Amt Change %
2021†
2022
2023
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
2030
2031
2032
2033
2034
2035
2036
2037
2038
2039
2040
2041
†2021 Governor's CerƟfied Series PopulaƟon EsƟmates
4,826
4,894 68 1.4%
4,958
5,008
5,060
5,110
5,162
5,209
5,256
5,304
5,355
5,408
5,461
5,517
5,581
5,652
5,725
5,807
5,895
5,986
6,080
64 1.3%
50 1.0%
52 1.0%
50 1.0%
52 1.0%
47 0.9%
47 0.9%
48 0.9%
51 1.0%
53 1.0%
53 1.0%
56 1.0%
64 1.2%
71 1.3%
73 1.3%
82 1.4%
88 1.5%
91 1.5%
94 1.6%
Nevada County Population Projections 2022 to 2041 6
Page 149 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 150=====
 
 
 
 
LF-2
Page 8 of 9
20-Year Population Projections: Nye County 20-Year Population Projections: Pershing County
Year Population Change Amt Change %
2021† 49,289
2022 49,803 514 1.0%
2023 50,316 513 1.0%
2024 50,828 512 1.0%
2025 51,328 500 1.0%
2026 51,857 529 1.0%
2027 52,420 563 1.1%
2028 52,998 578 1.1%
2029 53,534 536 1.0%
2030 54,116 582 1.1%
2031 54,710 594 1.1%
2032 55,322 612 1.1%
2033 55,951 629 1.1%
2034 56,591 640 1.1%
2035 57,239 648 1.1%
2036 57,893 654 1.1%
2037 58,599 706 1.2%
2038 59,367 768 1.3%
2039 60,197 830 1.4%
2040 61,070 873 1.5%
2041 61,992 922 1.5%
Year Population Change Amt Change %
2021† 6,984
2022 7,071 87 1.2%
2023 7,160 89 1.3%
2024 7,254 94 1.3%
2025 7,319 65 0.9%
2026 7,387 68 0.9%
2027 7,463 76 1.0%
2028 7,540 77 1.0%
2029 7,622 82 1.1%
2030 7,714 92 1.2%
2031 7,813 99 1.3%
2032 7,914 101 1.3%
2033 8,023 109 1.4%
2034 8,135 112 1.4%
2035 8,252 117 1.4%
2036 8,372 120 1.5%
2037 8,499 127 1.5%
2038 8,628 129 1.5%
2039 8,763 135 1.6%
2040 8,899 136 1.6%
2041 9,037 138 1.6%
20-Year Population Projections: Storey County 20-Year Population Projections: Washoe County
Year Population Change Amt Change %
2021† 4,359
2022 4,475 116 2.7%
2023 4,593 118 2.6%
2024 4,729 136 3.0%
2025 4,859 130 2.7%
2026 5,014 155 3.2%
2027 5,198 184 3.7%
2028 5,357 159 3.1%
2029 5,527 170 3.2%
2030 5,695 168 3.0%
2031 5,862 167 2.9%
2032 6,033 171 2.9%
2033 6,203 170 2.8%
2034 6,375 172 2.8%
2035 6,543 168 2.6%
2036 6,713 170 2.6%
2037 6,881 168 2.5%
2038 7,045 164 2.4%
2039 7,207 162 2.3%
2040 7,363 156 2.2%
2041 7,517 154 2.1%
Year Population Change Amt Change %
2021†
2022
2023
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
2030
2031
2032
2033
2034
2035
2036
2037
2038
2039
2040
2041
†2021 Governor's CerƟfied Series PopulaƟon EsƟmates
485,113
496,124 11,011 2.3%
505,821
514,300
521,603
528,479
535,016
539,931
544,545
548,538
552,272
555,810
559,169
562,372
565,418
568,253
570,936
573,490
575,864
578,105
580,230
9,697 2.0%
8,479 1.7%
7,303 1.4%
6,876 1.3%
6,537 1.2%
4,915 0.9%
4,614 0.9%
3,993 0.7%
3,734 0.7%
3,538 0.6%
3,359 0.6%
3,203 0.6%
3,046 0.5%
2,835 0.5%
2,683 0.5%
2,554 0.4%
2,374 0.4%
2,241 0.4%
2,125 0.4%
Nevada County Population Projections 2022 to 2041 7
Page 150 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 151=====
 
 
 
20-Year Population Projections: White Pine County 20-Year Population Projections: State Total
†2021 Governor's CerƟfied Series PopulaƟon EsƟmates
LF-2
Page 9 of 9
Year Population Change Amt Change %
2021† 10,293
2022 10,472 179 1.7%
2023 10,644 172 1.6%
2024 10,805 161 1.5%
2025 10,946 141 1.3%
2026 11,107 161 1.5%
2027 11,289 182 1.6%
2028 11,479 190 1.7%
2029 11,686 207 1.8%
2030 11,917 231 2.0%
2031 12,169 252 2.1%
2032 12,427 258 2.1%
2033 12,697 270 2.2%
2034 12,971 274 2.2%
2035 13,251 280 2.2%
2036 13,535 284 2.1%
2037 13,825 290 2.1%
2038 14,117 292 2.1%
2039 14,411 294 2.1%
2040 14,705 294 2.0%
2041 15,006 301 2.0%
Year Population Change Amt Change %
2021† 3,158,539
2022 3,219,785 61,246 1.9%
2023 3,276,217 56,432 1.8%
2024 3,326,241 50,024 1.5%
2025 3,371,906 45,665 1.4%
2026 3,414,482 42,576 1.3%
2027 3,452,884 38,402 1.1%
2028 3,485,208 32,324 0.9%
2029 3,512,499 27,291 0.8%
2030 3,535,890 23,391 0.7%
2031 3,556,905 21,015 0.6%
2032 3,576,696 19,791 0.6%
2033 3,595,456 18,760 0.5%
2034 3,613,982 18,526 0.5%
2035 3,632,480 18,498 0.5%
2036 3,650,928 18,448 0.5%
2037 3,669,075 18,147 0.5%
2038 3,687,356 18,281 0.5%
2039 3,705,301 17,945 0.5%
2040 3,723,046 17,745 0.5%
2041 3,740,336 17,290 0.5%
Nevada County Population Projections 2022 to 2041 8
Page 151 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 152=====
LF-3 
Page 152 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 153=====
Annual Report on the Estimated Population of Towns, Cities and Counties in the State of Nevada as of July 1, 2022* 
Including the Governor's Certified Estimates from July 1, 2002 to July 1, 2021 
LF-3 
Page 1 of 3
JULY 1 
2002 
Percent 
Change 
7/02 - 7/03 
JULY 1 
2003 
Percent 
Change 
7/03 - 7/04 
JULY 1 
2004 
Percent 
Change 
7/04 - 7/05 
JULY 1 
2005 
Percent 
Change 
7/05 - 7/06 
JULY 1 
2006 
Percent 
Change 
7/06 - 7/07 
JULY 1 
2007 
Percent 
Change 
7/07 - 7/08 
JULY 1 
2008 
Percent 
Change 
7/08 - 7/09 
JULY 1 
2009 
State of Nevada 2,206,022 4.1% 2,296,566 5.0% 2,410,768 4.5% 2,518,869 4.1% 2,623,050 3.6% 2,718,337 0.8% 2,738,733 -1.0% 2,711,206 
Counties 
Incorp. Cities 
Unincorp. Towns 
Carson City 54,844 0.7% 55,220 1.7% 56,146 1.7% 57,104 1.0% 57,701 0.0% 57,723 -0.2% 57,600 -1.9% 56,506 
Churchill County 25,116 2.8% 25,808 1.2% 26,106 1.8% 26,585 3.0% 27,371 -0.7% 27,190 -0.8% 26,981 -0.5% 26,859 
Fallon 8,178 1.5% 8,301 1.2% 8,398 -0.7% 8,339 -0.5% 8,299 1.8% 8,452 9.5% 9,258 -1.6% 9,113 
Clark County 1,549,657 4.6% 1,620,748 5.8% 1,715,337 4.7% 1,796,380 4.4% 1,874,837 4.2% 1,954,319 0.7% 1,967,716 -0.8% 1,952,040 
Boulder City 14,842 0.6% 14,934 0.8% 15,058 1.0% 15,203 1.8% 15,478 2.5% 15,863 5.2% 16,684 -3.7% 16,064 
Henderson 209,486 3.8% 217,448 5.8% 229,984 4.8% 241,134 4.2% 251,321 3.5% 260,161 3.6% 269,538 -0.7% 267,687 
Las Vegas 514,640 2.7% 528,617 4.0% 549,571 3.7% 569,838 1.8% 579,840 1.8% 590,321 0.5% 593,528 -0.4% 591,422 
Mesquite 13,216 5.1% 13,895 14.3% 15,881 3.4% 16,423 7.5% 17,656 6.4% 18,787 5.1% 19,754 4.7% 20,677 
North Las Vegas 135,967 7.4% 146,005 13.0% 164,971 9.2% 180,219 10.2% 198,516 6.0% 210,472 2.0% 214,661 0.2% 215,022 
Bunkerville 1,180 -1.3% 1,165 1.7% 1,185 1.1% 1,198 -1.6% 1,179 6.5% 1,255 -7.6% 1,160 5.3% 1,222 
Enterprise 46,193 34.2% 62,001 27.9% 79,299 20.3% 95,377 24.9% 119,100 20.8% 143,917 4.0% 149,713 0.5% 150,473 
Indian Springs 1,557 4.0% 1,619 2.6% 1,661 1.1% 1,679 13.6% 1,907 -13.0% 1,659 -10.3% 1,488 -2.8% 1,447 
Laughlin 6,403 8.6% 6,952 16.6% 8,105 1.5% 8,226 2.8% 8,458 4.1% 8,807 -0.5% 8,761 -9.7% 7,914 
Moapa 1,076 26.8% 1,364 -12.0% 1,200 5.1% 1,261 -20.5% 1,003 19.7% 1,201 -16.9% 998 5.4% 1,052 
Moapa Valley 6,277 0.7% 6,323 3.6% 6,549 2.7% 6,726 1.8% 6,845 18.1% 8,085 -11.8% 7,134 1.9% 7,269 
Mt. Charleston 853 2.3% 873 2.4% 894 -1.7% 879 -8.3% 806 46.4% 1,179 -5.2% 1,118 -5.0% 1,061 
Paradise 187,746 -1.3% 185,304 1.9% 188,768 1.5% 191,650 -2.8% 186,370 -0.2% 185,935 -2.0% 182,264 -1.8% 178,974 
Searchlight 822 30.6% 1,073 3.1% 1,106 -1.6% 1,088 -29.8% 764 4.4% 798 -6.1% 750 -4.2% 718 
Spring Valley 139,290 8.0% 150,402 7.2% 161,286 2.5% 165,335 4.1% 172,110 2.7% 176,815 0.1% 176,910 -1.4% 174,458 
Summerlin 12,239 33.2% 16,300 9.5% 17,841 13.5% 20,256 7.1% 21,692 21.8% 26,415 6.0% 27,992 1.2% 28,342 
Sunrise Manor 176,587 2.7% 181,354 1.9% 184,801 0.9% 186,511 2.9% 191,858 0.1% 191,966 -3.2% 185,745 -3.2% 179,808 
Whitney 18,979 8.8% 20,640 5.3% 21,738 24.9% 27,155 22.1% 33,144 9.2% 36,182 0.0% 36,164 4.2% 37,690 
Winchester 33,994 1.1% 34,378 -1.3% 33,917 3.8% 35,208 -0.9% 34,874 7.7% 37,561 -1.1% 37,141 -5.1% 35,235 
Douglas County 44,212 3.1% 45,603 4.8% 47,803 4.8% 50,108 3.3% 51,770 1.2% 52,386 -0.5% 52,131 -1.4% 51,390 
Gardnerville 4,065 6.2% 4,316 17.4% 5,067 1.9% 5,165 7.4% 5,550 -2.8% 5,394 0.3% 5,412 -3.0% 5,250 
Genoa 227 1.0% 229 6.6% 244 1.4% 248 1.6% 252 0.2% 252 1.3% 255 0.2% 256 
Minden 2,830 1.4% 2,870 2.6% 2,945 1.3% 2,983 8.4% 3,234 0.2% 3,239 0.7% 3,261 -1.0% 3,229 
Elko County 46,577 -1.7% 45,805 1.5% 46,499 2.3% 47,586 1.6% 48,339 4.3% 50,434 0.3% 50,561 1.5% 51,325 
Carlin 2,074 -1.4% 2,045 9.6% 2,240 1.0% 2,261 0.9% 2,281 0.6% 2,295 1.2% 2,322 1.0% 2,345 
Elko 16,690 -2.0% 16,354 4.8% 17,140 4.1% 17,850 1.9% 18,183 1.3% 18,427 0.0% 18,424 0.0% 18,428 
Wells 1,389 -1.1% 1,373 2.4% 1,406 1.2% 1,423 1.9% 1,449 4.0% 1,508 1.1% 1,524 -0.6% 1,515 
West Wendover 4,839 -2.2% 4,732 2.1% 4,830 0.4% 4,848 0.5% 4,871 1.8% 4,958 0.6% 4,990 -0.9% 4,945 
Jackpot 1,288 -1.3% 1,271 0.8% 1,281 -0.6% 1,273 1.6% 1,293 -5.9% 1,217 0.4% 1,222 -3.1% 1,184 
Montello 181 0.0% 181 -1.1% 179 1.2% 181 -3.7% 175 -5.7% 165 0.4% 165 1.3% 167 
Mountain City 127 -1.6% 125 -1.3% 123 -1.8% 121 3.1% 125 3.5% 129 0.9% 130 -7.0% 121 
Esmeralda County 1,125 -0.8% 1,116 5.3% 1,176 8.5% 1,276 -1.1% 1,262 -2.1% 1,236 0.3% 1,240 -4.3% 1,187 
Goldfield 438 0.2% 439 3.1% 453 -3.3% 438 -1.7% 430 4.2% 448 -7.5% 415 6.4% 441 
Silver Peak 128 -3.5% 124 2.4% 127 -0.9% 126 -7.1% 117 6.9% 125 45.9% 182 -22.7% 141 
Eureka County 1,384 2.6% 1,420 4.4% 1,484 0.1% 1,485 -1.7% 1,460 -0.1% 1,458 6.5% 1,553 0.6% 1,562 
Crescent Valley 279 7.4% 300 1.4% 304 2.2% 311 -5.9% 292 -1.2% 289 -2.2% 283 0.2% 283 
Eureka (town) 434 2.9% 446 1.7% 454 -2.9% 440 -1.7% 433 -0.4% 431 9.6% 473 2.1% 483 
Humboldt County 16,308 0.9% 16,457 1.4% 16,692 3.6% 17,293 2.6% 17,751 1.7% 18,052 -0.2% 18,014 -1.8% 17,690 
Winnemucca 7,234 0.6% 7,280 -0.4% 7,249 2.1% 7,401 3.3% 7,643 0.0% 7,646 0.2% 7,659 -0.9% 7,593 
Lander County 5,547 -4.9% 5,277 1.5% 5,357 2.8% 5,509 2.7% 5,655 1.6% 5,747 2.5% 5,891 1.9% 6,003 
Austin 295 -8.0% 271 8.1% 293 -1.6% 288 -0.3% 287 -4.4% 275 12.4% 309 -1.7% 304 
Battle Mountain 2,770 -5.3% 2,623 0.9% 2,645 1.8% 2,692 1.8% 2,740 3.8% 2,845 2.7% 2,922 1.5% 2,967 
Kingston 256 5.7% 271 -11.7% 239 20.5% 288 6.3% 306 1.0% 309 3.5% 320 3.3% 331 
Lincoln County 3,879 -3.3% 3,749 1.9% 3,822 1.7% 3,886 2.6% 3,987 5.0% 4,184 4.0% 4,352 -0.8% 4,317 
Caliente 1,058 11.8% 1,184 -14.4% 1,014 0.2% 1,015 -1.4% 1,002 8.7% 1,089 -1.1% 1,077 2.7% 1,106 
Alamo 442 -3.1% 428 3.1% 441 -2.9% 428 0.7% 432 -1.0% 427 8.5% 464 -1.9% 455 
Panaca 564 -4.0% 541 2.1% 552 1.8% 562 -0.7% 558 6.7% 595 8.4% 645 2.1% 659 
Pioche 680 -3.0% 659 1.5% 669 4.3% 698 0.7% 703 12.6% 791 -0.7% 785 6.6% 837 
Lyon County 38,777 6.4% 41,244 8.2% 44,646 9.4% 48,860 10.6% 54,031 3.5% 55,903 -0.1% 55,820 -3.6% 53,825 
Fernley 10,440 12.2% 11,718 17.6% 13,775 18.7% 16,357 15.2% 18,850 3.9% 19,585 0.1% 19,609 -3.5% 18,929 
Yerington 2,859 1.5% 2,902 0.3% 2,912 2.3% 2,980 9.3% 3,257 1.9% 3,319 0.2% 3,324 -5.6% 3,138 
Mineral County 4,695 -0.2% 4,687 -0.3% 4,673 -0.9% 4,629 -5.0% 4,399 -0.5% 4,377 0.6% 4,401 1.7% 4,474 
Hawthorne 2,995 0.0% 2,995 -0.9% 2,968 -0.4% 2,956 -0.9% 2,931 1.0% 2,960 0.3% 2,970 1.9% 3,028 
Luning 93 -1.3% 91 5.6% 97 -9.5% 87 -7.0% 81 -2.4% 79 0.6% 80 -1.4% 79 
Mina 284 -2.2% 278 6.8% 297 -7.0% 276 -21.2% 218 -5.9% 205 1.4% 207 -0.2% 207 
Walker Lake 325 -2.1% 318 0.0% 318 -2.5% 310 2.9% 319 -6.2% 299 1.8% 305 3.8% 316 
Nye County 35,039 4.6% 36,651 4.2% 38,181 8.2% 41,302 8.5% 44,795 3.4% 46,308 2.3% 47,370 -2.1% 46,360 
Amargosa 1,171 -0.2% 1,169 3.6% 1,211 14.3% 1,383 3.7% 1,435 4.7% 1,503 1.2% 1,521 -8.5% 1,392 
Beatty 1,089 -0.9% 1,079 -9.1% 981 5.2% 1,032 -0.7% 1,025 3.3% 1,059 -3.3% 1,024 -14.0% 880 
Gabbs 320 -1.9% 314 0.9% 316 -1.4% 312 0.4% 313 3.0% 322 3.1% 332 -4.9% 316 
Manhattan 122 10.7% 135 -4.8% 128 -3.2% 124 -1.9% 122 14.5% 140 -1.3% 138 -1.8% 135 
Pahrump 27,527 4.8% 28,847 5.6% 30,465 9.1% 33,241 10.2% 36,645 3.5% 37,928 2.5% 38,882 -1.6% 38,247 
Round Mountain 779 0.7% 784 -2.1% 767 -3.1% 744 5.9% 787 5.5% 831 2.3% 850 -1.5% 837 
Tonopah 2,422 2.4% 2,481 -5.6% 2,341 11.3% 2,607 -0.3% 2,600 0.4% 2,610 0.7% 2,628 -1.8% 2,580 
Pershing County 6,937 0.4% 6,967 -4.8% 6,631 1.6% 6,736 3.2% 6,955 1.7% 7,075 1.6% 7,192 -0.6% 7,149 
Lovelock 2,267 6.1% 2,405 -1.0% 2,381 -0.8% 2,363 2.7% 2,427 1.6% 2,465 -0.3% 2,458 -1.9% 2,411 
Imlay 241 -1.1% 238 -5.4% 225 -1.0% 223 2.5% 228 1.9% 233 4.4% 243 -4.1% 233 
Storey County 3,639 2.7% 3,736 1.6% 3,797 5.7% 4,012 2.4% 4,110 4.4% 4,293 2.1% 4,384 -1.5% 4,317 
Gold Hill 172 4.2% 180 5.4% 189 0.7% 191 6.3% 203 3.0% 209 1.6% 212 -2.4% 207 
Virginia City 882 2.4% 904 -1.8% 887 5.7% 938 1.7% 954 5.9% 1,011 1.5% 1,027 -1.5% 1,011 
Washoe County 359,423 3.8% 373,233 2.7% 383,453 3.5% 396,844 3.1% 409,085 2.2% 418,061 1.4% 423,833 -1.7% 416,632 
Reno 187,834 4.2% 195,727 1.8% 199,249 3.8% 206,735 3.7% 214,371 2.9% 220,613 1.1% 223,012 -2.2% 218,143 
Sparks 75,255 4.2% 78,435 4.1% 81,673 4.8% 85,618 2.6% 87,846 1.8% 89,449 2.5% 91,684 -0.5% 91,237 
White Pine County 8,863 -0.2% 8,842 1.4% 8,966 3.4% 9,275 2.9% 9,542 0.5% 9,590 2.5% 9,694 -1.3% 9,570 
Ely 3,886 -1.5% 3,829 3.5% 3,962 5.1% 4,166 3.8% 4,325 -0.7% 4,294 1.3% 4,352 -1.4% 4,291 
Lund 146 0.5% 147 0.0% 147 6.1% 156 3.7% 162 1.5% 164 -4.2% 157 0.3% 158 
McGill 1,071 -0.4% 1,066 1.2% 1,079 2.8% 1,109 3.2% 1,145 -1.8% 1,125 0.3% 1,128 -1.7% 1,109 
Ruth 373 -0.3% 372 1.9% 379 3.9% 394 2.9% 405 -1.3% 400 1.8% 407 -1.3% 402 
*Issued by the Nevada Department of Taxation per NRS 360.283 for Certification by the Governor on or before March 1, 2023 
†Census counts are for reference only and are not part of the annual estimates certified by the Governor Page 1 of 3 
Page 153 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 154=====
Annual Report on the Estimated Population of Towns, Cities and Counties in the State of Nevada as of July 1, 2022* 
Including the Governor's Certified Estimates from July 1, 2002 to July 1, 2021 
LF-3 
Page 2 of 3
Percent CENSUS Percent Percent Percent Percent Percent Percent Percent 
Change April 1 JULY 1 Change Change JULY 1 Change JULY 1 Change JULY 1 Change JULY 1 Change JULY 1 Change 
7/09 - 7/10 2010† 2010 4/10 - 7/11 7/10 - 7/11 2011 7/11 - 7/12 2012 7/12 - 7/13 2013 7/13 - 7/14 2014 7/14 - 7/15 2015 7/15 - 7/16 
State of Nevada 0.5% 2,700,551 2,724,634 0.8% -0.1% 2,721,794 1.0% 2,750,217 1.8% 2,800,967 1.5% 2,843,301 1.9% 2,897,584 1.9% 
Counties 
Incorp. Cities 
Unincorp. Towns 
Carson City -1.2% 55,274 55,850 1.4% 0.4% 56,066 -1.1% 55,441 -1.4% 54,668 -1.3% 53,969 0.6% 54,273 1.7% 
Churchill County -1.9% 24,877 26,360 1.0% -4.6% 25,136 0.4% 25,238 0.3% 25,322 -0.9% 25,103 0.1% 25,126 0.6% 
Fallon -2.3% 8,606 8,903 0.0% -3.3% 8,609 1.1% 8,706 0.0% 8,706 -0.7% 8,645 1.4% 8,770 1.2% 
Clark County 0.9% 1,951,269 1,968,831 0.8% -0.1% 1,967,722 1.0% 1,988,195 2.2% 2,031,723 1.9% 2,069,450 2.4% 2,118,353 2.3% 
Boulder City -4.4% 15,023 15,359 2.1% -0.2% 15,335 2.8% 15,759 -0.8% 15,635 0.0% 15,627 1.2% 15,813 3.1% 
Henderson -0.2% 257,729 267,270 2.8% -0.9% 264,839 0.8% 266,846 2.8% 274,270 2.4% 280,928 2.5% 287,828 2.3% 
Las Vegas -0.8% 583,756 586,536 0.8% 0.3% 588,274 0.1% 589,156 1.6% 598,520 2.0% 610,637 1.7% 620,935 1.4% 
Mesquite -1.1% 15,276 20,440 11.5% -16.6% 17,038 -1.5% 16,778 4.2% 17,477 4.5% 18,262 4.4% 19,061 4.9% 
North Las Vegas 1.1% 216,961 217,482 3.2% 2.9% 223,873 -0.8% 222,009 1.9% 226,199 1.9% 230,491 2.1% 235,395 2.3% 
Bunkerville 2.7% 1,256 1,255 -4.5% -4.5% 1,199 -9.6% 1,084 -1.5% 1,067 -2.7% 1,039 5.7% 1,097 -0.1% 
Enterprise 9.8% 165,435 165,285 -2.9% -2.8% 160,632 1.4% 162,872 4.8% 170,699 2.0% 174,064 5.6% 183,755 2.6% 
Indian Springs -6.3% 1,357 1,356 -13.9% -13.8% 1,169 2.0% 1,192 0.9% 1,203 1.4% 1,220 1.2% 1,235 1.9% 
Laughlin -0.6% 7,874 7,867 -9.0% -8.9% 7,166 17.4% 8,414 5.0% 8,835 1.4% 8,963 2.5% 9,186 2.1% 
Moapa 0.8% 1,061 1,060 31.0% 31.1% 1,390 -21.8% 1,086 0.7% 1,094 23.6% 1,352 0.8% 1,363 0.6% 
Moapa Valley 3.1% 7,503 7,496 1.9% 2.0% 7,647 -10.2% 6,868 0.0% 6,871 -0.3% 6,851 0.3% 6,875 1.3% 
Mt. Charleston 0.6% 1,069 1,068 -38.7% -38.7% 655 -1.3% 647 0.7% 651 -2.5% 635 2.9% 653 1.8% 
Paradise 3.5% 185,472 185,304 -2.1% -2.0% 181,635 1.7% 184,745 1.7% 187,949 1.6% 191,047 0.9% 192,810 -0.6% 
Searchlight 3.4% 744 743 -23.2% -23.1% 571 -30.7% 395 0.3% 397 -13.2% 344 0.8% 347 2.6% 
Spring Valley 1.3% 176,872 176,712 -2.5% -2.4% 172,483 7.2% 184,910 2.1% 188,818 1.3% 191,342 3.5% 197,958 6.7% 
Summerlin 4.7% 29,694 29,667 -15.3% -15.3% 25,141 0.5% 25,260 6.3% 26,855 1.4% 27,244 3.9% 28,300 6.1% 
Sunrise Manor -2.6% 175,365 175,206 8.9% 9.0% 191,007 2.9% 196,570 1.6% 199,754 1.5% 202,710 2.0% 206,720 1.6% 
Whitney -0.2% 37,637 37,603 3.9% 4.0% 39,122 -0.5% 38,910 2.4% 39,857 1.8% 40,567 2.7% 41,662 5.9% 
Winchester -0.3% 35,174 35,142 -5.2% -5.2% 33,329 -5.1% 31,634 1.0% 31,960 1.4% 32,413 1.1% 32,770 0.6% 
Douglas County -4.2% 46,997 49,242 1.4% -3.2% 47,661 0.7% 48,015 1.0% 48,478 0.2% 48,553 -0.7% 48,223 0.0% 
Gardnerville -5.1% 4,756 4,983 15.0% 9.8% 5,469 0.5% 5,495 0.8% 5,541 4.0% 5,760 -0.2% 5,751 0.5% 
Genoa -4.7% 233 244 -7.2% -11.5% 216 1.3% 219 0.6% 220 -1.5% 217 -1.1% 215 -0.5% 
Minden -0.5% 3,067 3,213 -2.7% -7.1% 2,984 0.9% 3,010 -0.6% 2,993 2.7% 3,072 0.0% 3,072 1.2% 
Elko County 1.5% 48,818 52,097 2.1% -4.3% 49,861 3.8% 51,771 3.1% 53,384 0.0% 53,358 0.4% 53,551 0.8% 
Carlin 1.1% 2,368 2,370 0.3% 0.3% 2,376 0.0% 2,376 20.0% 2,851 -4.2% 2,731 -0.1% 2,727 -1.6% 
Elko 2.2% 18,297 18,842 5.0% 1.9% 19,209 6.2% 20,406 2.7% 20,958 -0.4% 20,865 -0.7% 20,714 0.0% 
Wells 1.1% 1,292 1,531 -9.1% -23.3% 1,174 9.0% 1,280 2.1% 1,307 8.0% 1,411 -2.8% 1,371 1.3% 
West Wendover 1.1% 4,410 4,999 1.4% -10.6% 4,470 -2.3% 4,367 2.0% 4,453 -0.7% 4,420 1.3% 4,478 -0.1% 
Jackpot 1.1% 1,103 1,197 -12.7% -19.5% 963 -5.1% 914 1.0% 923 -1.8% 907 -1.0% 898 0.0% 
Montello 1.0% 156 169 -49.3% -53.3% 79 -23.5% 60 -0.3% 60 -6.3% 56 -0.9% 56 11.6% 
Mountain City 0.9% 112 122 -9.3% -16.4% 102 7.4% 110 -0.7% 109 -1.6% 107 -7.0% 100 -4.1% 
Esmeralda County -3.5% 783 1,145 5.4% -27.9% 825 4.3% 860 -0.2% 858 7.9% 926 -0.4% 923 4.5% 
Goldfield -9.4% 274 400 5.3% -28.0% 288 -9.9% 259 12.8% 293 -7.2% 272 -3.7% 262 -0.6% 
Silver Peak -8.3% 88 129 32.6% -9.3% 117 9.4% 128 3.4% 132 -3.2% 128 4.0% 133 -7.6% 
Eureka County 3.0% 1,987 1,609 0.4% 23.9% 1,994 0.8% 2,011 0.7% 2,024 -6.0% 1,903 -2.2% 1,862 5.2% 
Crescent Valley 4.5% 366 296 8.3% 33.8% 396 -6.5% 370 0.2% 371 0.8% 374 0.0% 374 -0.5% 
Eureka (town) 3.3% 616 499 -0.8% 22.4% 611 17.3% 717 0.4% 720 -3.9% 691 0.8% 697 5.1% 
Humboldt County 3.8% 16,528 18,364 3.7% -6.7% 17,135 1.5% 17,384 0.4% 17,457 -0.4% 17,388 -1.9% 17,057 -1.2% 
Winnemucca 4.8% 7,396 7,961 6.0% -1.5% 7,839 2.0% 7,997 2.4% 8,185 -1.8% 8,042 -3.0% 7,802 -0.4% 
Lander County -0.2% 5,775 5,992 3.7% -0.1% 5,988 3.9% 6,221 2.0% 6,343 3.4% 6,560 -4.8% 6,247 0.2% 
Austin 2.8% 301 312 -43.1% -45.2% 171 1.0% 173 -2.2% 169 0.7% 170 -2.6% 166 0.3% 
Battle Mountain -1.5% 2,816 2,922 18.1% 13.8% 3,326 2.9% 3,421 6.9% 3,657 4.0% 3,804 -6.1% 3,573 -0.4% 
Kingston -0.8% 316 328 -60.5% -61.9% 125 -0.9% 124 0.1% 124 2.9% 128 -5.9% 120 13.3% 
Lincoln County 7.3% 5,345 4,631 -1.1% 14.1% 5,284 -3.5% 5,100 -1.6% 5,020 -0.3% 5,004 1.7% 5,088 -0.6% 
Caliente 3.5% 1,130 1,144 -7.3% -8.5% 1,047 4.0% 1,089 -1.9% 1,068 -1.1% 1,056 -0.7% 1,049 -1.7% 
Alamo 10.6% 608 503 3.1% 24.7% 627 -7.0% 583 0.0% 583 -0.9% 578 0.3% 580 13.8% 
Panaca -5.0% 757 626 3.2% 24.8% 781 6.5% 832 -2.5% 811 -1.7% 797 -1.8% 783 1.9% 
Pioche 0.3% 1,014 839 -8.0% 11.2% 933 -13.2% 810 -2.5% 790 -0.7% 784 -5.1% 744 3.9% 
Lyon County -2.8% 51,980 52,334 0.9% 0.2% 52,443 -0.4% 52,245 1.4% 52,960 0.7% 53,344 -0.1% 53,277 0.7% 
Fernley -2.6% 19,368 18,434 -2.4% 2.5% 18,896 -0.3% 18,831 0.8% 18,987 0.5% 19,077 -0.7% 18,936 0.6% 
Yerington -3.3% 3,048 3,034 3.8% 4.3% 3,165 -2.3% 3,094 0.4% 3,106 -0.4% 3,095 3.1% 3,191 -0.9% 
Mineral County -0.1% 4,772 4,471 -3.6% 2.9% 4,601 1.7% 4,679 -0.4% 4,662 -1.7% 4,584 -1.0% 4,539 0.9% 
Hawthorne 5.5% 3,409 3,194 -11.8% -5.8% 3,008 2.6% 3,086 -0.3% 3,076 -1.7% 3,023 0.4% 3,035 -5.5% 
Luning -0.8% 83 78 5.7% 12.8% 88 12.3% 99 1.0% 100 -1.8% 98 3.1% 101 22.1% 
Mina -14.1% 190 178 -32.1% -27.5% 129 25.3% 162 0.9% 163 -1.6% 160 -4.9% 153 13.6% 
Walker Lake 0.6% 339 318 -9.5% -3.5% 307 13.7% 349 -0.7% 346 -5.0% 329 14.7% 378 6.8% 
Nye County -1.9% 43,946 45,459 1.3% -2.1% 44,513 -0.5% 44,292 1.0% 44,749 1.6% 45,456 1.3% 46,050 -0.7% 
Amargosa 7.2% 1,442 1,492 -7.7% -10.8% 1,331 1.7% 1,353 -0.8% 1,342 6.2% 1,426 -2.1% 1,396 -0.4% 
Beatty 5.0% 893 924 9.6% 6.0% 979 3.2% 1,011 -4.5% 966 1.0% 975 -0.2% 973 -2.3% 
Gabbs -3.8% 294 304 -4.0% -7.2% 282 -3.9% 271 -4.4% 259 -5.6% 245 -5.6% 231 -2.1% 
Manhattan -1.7% 129 133 -5.9% -9.0% 121 3.4% 125 -0.7% 124 6.9% 133 0.9% 134 -2.7% 
Pahrump -1.2% 36,538 37,796 1.3% -2.1% 36,995 -1.1% 36,593 1.2% 37,030 1.6% 37,626 2.3% 38,482 -0.6% 
Round Mountain -3.7% 779 806 -1.0% -4.3% 771 4.9% 809 1.6% 822 2.9% 846 -1.0% 837 -4.6% 
Tonopah -3.6% 2,405 2,488 -2.5% -5.7% 2,346 8.8% 2,552 1.6% 2,593 -0.6% 2,578 -9.0% 2,345 -2.3% 
Pershing County -0.2% 6,753 7,133 1.4% -4.0% 6,847 2.4% 7,013 -1.9% 6,882 -2.4% 6,714 0.5% 6,750 -0.8% 
Lovelock -5.7% 1,894 2,274 14.6% -4.5% 2,171 -10.8% 1,936 2.6% 1,987 -1.8% 1,952 -3.1% 1,893 1.2% 
Imlay -0.1% 233 233 -31.3% -31.3% 160 16.1% 186 31.5% 244 5.4% 257 -23.9% 196 6.0% 
Storey County -1.9% 4,010 4,234 2.8% -2.6% 4,123 -0.5% 4,103 -2.1% 4,017 -1.1% 3,974 0.3% 3,984 1.5% 
Gold Hill -2.4% 191 202 24.4% 17.8% 238 -14.1% 204 -2.1% 200 0.6% 201 0.0% 201 1.2% 
Virginia City -1.3% 945 998 -9.1% -13.9% 859 -3.4% 830 1.3% 841 -1.1% 832 0.0% 831 1.6% 
Washoe County 0.2% 421,407 417,379 0.0% 1.0% 421,593 1.4% 427,704 1.1% 432,324 1.0% 436,797 1.2% 441,946 1.4% 
Reno -0.4% 225,221 217,282 -1.1% 2.5% 222,801 3.2% 229,859 1.0% 232,243 1.3% 235,371 1.4% 238,615 1.5% 
Sparks 1.2% 90,264 92,331 2.3% 0.0% 92,302 -2.3% 90,214 1.5% 91,551 0.9% 92,396 1.3% 93,581 2.3% 
White Pine County -0.7% 10,030 9,503 -0.3% 5.3% 10,002 -0.6% 9,945 1.5% 10,095 1.2% 10,218 1.2% 10,336 0.8% 
Ely -1.3% 4,255 4,235 -3.9% -3.4% 4,089 -0.6% 4,066 0.8% 4,100 1.6% 4,165 -2.6% 4,056 0.2% 
Lund 2.7% 178 162 16.6% 27.8% 207 -0.4% 206 0.2% 206 0.8% 208 -5.5% 197 2.9% 
McGill -0.1% 1,215 1,108 -3.8% 5.4% 1,168 0.6% 1,175 0.2% 1,177 2.0% 1,200 -3.2% 1,161 0.4% 
Ruth -0.7% 437 399 -4.0% 5.3% 420 -0.5% 418 1.5% 424 1.2% 429 1.2% 434 0.8% 
*Issued by the Nevada Department of Taxation per NRS 360.283 for Certification by the Governor on or before March 1, 2023 
†Census counts are for reference only and are not part of the annual estimates certified by the Governor Page 2 of 3 
Page 154 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 155=====
Annual Report on the Estimated Population of Towns, Cities and Counties in the State of Nevada as of July 1, 2022* 
Including the Governor's Certified Estimates from July 1, 2002 to July 1, 2021 
LF-3 
Page 3 of 3
JULY 1 
2016 
Percent 
Change 
7/16 - 7/17 
JULY 1 
2017 
Percent 
Change 
7/17 - 7/18 
JULY 1 
2018 
Percent 
Change 
7/18 - 7/19 
JULY 1 
2019 
Percent 
Change 
7/19 - 7/20 
CENSUS 
April 1 
2020†
JULY 1 
2020 
Percent 
Change 
4/20 - 7/21 
Percent 
Change 
7/20 - 7/21 
JULY 1 
2021 
Percent 
Change 
7/21 - 7/22 
JULY 1 
2022 
State of Nevada 2,953,375 1.1% 2,986,656 2.4% 3,057,582 1.8% 3,112,937 1.0% 3,104,614 3,145,184 1.7% 0.4% 3,158,539 1.4% 3,204,105
Counties 
Incorp. Cities 
Unincorp. Towns 
Carson City 55,182 0.5% 55,438 1.1% 56,057 0.2% 56,151 0.5% 58,639 56,434 -2.7% 1.1% 57,073 2.2% 58,314
Churchill County 25,266 0.5% 25,387 1.0% 25,628 0.8% 25,832 1.4% 25,516 26,202 3.1% 0.4% 26,310 1.0% 26,564
Fallon 8,874 1.8% 9,030 1.1% 9,125 0.6% 9,184 -1.2% 9,327 9,077 -2.2% 0.5% 9,123 2.0% 9,308
Clark County 2,166,181 1.3% 2,193,818 2.6% 2,251,175 1.9% 2,293,391 1.2% 2,265,461 2,320,107 2.4% 0.0% 2,320,551 0.8% 2,338,127
Boulder City 16,298 -1.1% 16,121 -1.4% 15,887 1.9% 16,188 -0.4% 14,885 16,127 2.0% -5.8% 15,189 -1.2% 15,012
Henderson 294,359 2.2% 300,709 3.2% 310,244 2.4% 317,660 1.6% 317,610 322,800 4.1% 2.4% 330,561 1.2% 334,640
Las Vegas 629,649 0.5% 633,028 1.8% 644,113 1.4% 653,350 0.3% 641,903 655,489 3.6% 1.4% 664,960 -0.6% 660,987
Mesquite 19,991 4.2% 20,838 8.2% 22,557 5.6% 23,827 4.8% 20,471 24,971 12.3% -8.0% 22,981 -3.4% 22,205
North Las Vegas 240,708 1.1% 243,339 2.2% 248,701 2.7% 255,327 1.3% 262,527 258,761 5.0% 6.6% 275,733 1.1% 278,671
Bunkerville 1,096 -5.0% 1,042 0.7% 1,049 1.0% 1,060 -1.5% 1,010 1,044 -2.3% -5.5% 987 -4.6% 942
Enterprise 188,503 2.7% 193,572 6.6% 206,266 2.7% 211,761 4.0% 213,073 220,237 4.4% 1.0% 222,522 5.4% 234,517
Indian Springs 1,259 0.4% 1,264 -10.0% 1,138 12.8% 1,283 3.0% 1,279 1,322 -13.3% -16.2% 1,108 27.3% 1,411
Laughlin 9,380 3.1% 9,672 3.6% 10,017 -0.2% 10,001 3.0% 9,971 10,306 -6.6% -9.6% 9,313 -3.5% 8,990
Moapa 1,370 -25.1% 1,026 39.6% 1,433 -0.1% 1,430 -0.7% 1,374 1,420 -7.3% -10.3% 1,274 2.9% 1,311
Moapa Valley 6,967 2.1% 7,115 1.6% 7,231 1.9% 7,368 1.2% 7,215 7,458 -14.6% -17.4% 6,163 2.8% 6,335
Mt. Charleston 665 0.2% 666 2.4% 682 2.6% 700 -2.4% 661 683 11.2% 7.6% 735 -0.4% 732
Paradise 191,705 1.0% 193,712 1.5% 196,586 2.1% 200,698 0.6% 195,245 201,810 -1.4% -4.6% 192,552 -1.3% 190,003
Searchlight 356 2.0% 364 1.0% 367 4.0% 382 2.1% 377 390 17.2% 13.4% 442 -0.6% 439
Spring Valley 211,232 2.4% 216,228 3.7% 224,158 1.1% 226,723 1.4% 222,388 229,865 -3.4% -6.5% 214,862 1.7% 218,452
Summerlin 30,013 1.6% 30,492 4.6% 31,894 1.0% 32,199 2.6% 31,977 33,052 3.1% -0.3% 32,957 0.2% 33,015
Sunrise Manor 209,932 0.1% 210,216 1.5% 213,341 1.3% 216,021 0.2% 209,310 216,348 0.4% -2.8% 210,189 0.2% 210,610
Whitney 44,110 0.8% 44,449 2.2% 45,419 2.0% 46,328 0.4% 45,014 46,528 5.4% 1.9% 47,426 -2.5% 46,256
Winchester 32,972 0.3% 33,065 1.0% 33,402 2.1% 34,095 0.5% 33,153 34,268 4.8% 1.4% 34,749 -2.0% 34,064
Douglas County 48,235 0.1% 48,300 1.6% 49,070 1.0% 49,537 -0.9% 49,488 49,082 0.3% 1.2% 49,661 6.1% 52,674
Gardnerville 5,780 -1.5% 5,693 3.2% 5,874 2.8% 6,036 -1.7% 5,982 5,933 3.4% 4.3% 6,188 -10.3% 5,553
Genoa 213 0.0% 213 2.5% 219 0.8% 220 -1.0% 220 218 -3.3% -2.5% 213 1.1% 215
Minden 3,110 2.6% 3,191 2.5% 3,270 0.7% 3,293 0.0% 3,321 3,294 4.2% 5.1% 3,460 -4.0% 3,323
Elko County 53,997 -1.3% 53,287 1.9% 54,326 1.5% 55,116 0.6% 53,702 55,435 1.6% -1.6% 54,546 3.4% 56,396
Carlin 2,684 -2.5% 2,617 -0.2% 2,613 1.9% 2,663 0.4% 2,050 2,674 27.6% -2.2% 2,615 -3.2% 2,531
Elko 20,704 0.4% 20,789 1.8% 21,158 0.2% 21,199 1.4% 20,564 21,492 2.0% -2.4% 20,976 1.6% 21,303
Wells 1,388 -5.5% 1,312 4.0% 1,365 0.1% 1,366 -5.1% 1,237 1,296 2.9% -1.8% 1,272 -0.1% 1,272
West Wendover 4,474 -6.1% 4,201 4.9% 4,406 1.4% 4,469 1.5% 4,512 4,535 -1.3% -1.8% 4,452 0.3% 4,464
Jackpot 897 -4.2% 860 0.6% 865 13.0% 978 -1.7% 958 961 -1.4% -1.8% 944 21.6% 1,148
Montello 62 0.6% 63 0.2% 63 1.0% 64 -3.5% 61 61 -1.6% -1.9% 60 4.0% 63
Mountain City 95 -8.4% 87 -15.4% 74 9.0% 81 -6.8% 75 75 -1.6% -1.9% 74 41.3% 104
Esmeralda County 964 0.6% 970 -0.1% 969 1.4% 982 1.7% 729 999 37.2% 0.1% 1,000 6.8% 1,068
Goldfield 260 1.2% 263 4.4% 274 2.8% 282 2.1% 210 288 39.0% 1.4% 292 10.8% 324
Silver Peak 123 -1.1% 122 -17.2% 101 -0.5% 100 0.6% 74 101 23.5% -9.8% 91 -3.4% 88
Eureka County 1,959 -1.4% 1,932 1.0% 1,951 0.2% 1,955 -1.0% 1,855 1,936 2.3% -2.0% 1,898 -2.7% 1,847
Crescent Valley 372 2.0% 380 -3.2% 367 3.7% 381 -2.7% 355 370 5.9% 1.5% 376 -17.9% 309
Eureka (town) 732 -4.3% 701 4.8% 734 -2.4% 717 -2.2% 671 701 1.9% -2.4% 684 -4.0% 657
Humboldt County 16,853 0.7% 16,978 0.1% 16,989 0.5% 17,079 -0.1% 17,285 17,064 -0.5% 0.8% 17,202 4.2% 17,921
Winnemucca 7,772 2.3% 7,947 -1.1% 7,856 0.6% 7,903 0.4% 8,431 7,937 -1.5% 4.6% 8,306 3.0% 8,554
Lander County 6,257 -0.9% 6,200 -2.2% 6,065 0.7% 6,109 3.5% 5,734 6,324 8.0% -2.0% 6,195 -0.6% 6,158
Austin 166 0.0% 166 0.2% 167 -6.2% 156 0.9% 143 158 7.0% -3.0% 153 6.4% 163
Battle Mountain 3,559 -2.4% 3,473 -2.5% 3,387 0.1% 3,391 2.7% 3,157 3,482 8.5% -1.7% 3,424 -7.8% 3,158
Kingston 136 -9.5% 123 -0.5% 123 -0.5% 122 5.7% 117 129 7.8% -2.3% 126 -0.9% 125
Lincoln County 5,057 2.2% 5,170 1.6% 5,255 0.2% 5,264 0.5% 4,499 5,293 15.3% -2.0% 5,188 -4.2% 4,971
Caliente 1,031 3.4% 1,066 1.6% 1,084 0.2% 1,086 4.4% 990 1,133 11.1% -2.9% 1,100 6.1% 1,167
Alamo 660 2.0% 673 1.6% 684 0.2% 686 3.1% 596 707 -0.8% -16.4% 591 22.1% 721
Panaca 798 -0.2% 797 1.6% 810 0.2% 811 1.6% 695 824 21.0% 2.1% 841 2.4% 861
Pioche 773 1.4% 784 1.6% 797 0.2% 798 1.4% 683 809 18.6% 0.1% 810 26.0% 1,020
Lyon County 53,644 1.9% 54,657 1.6% 55,551 1.7% 56,497 2.0% 59,235 57,629 -2.0% 0.7% 58,051 4.1% 60,454
Fernley 19,042 1.4% 19,300 2.5% 19,790 3.1% 20,396 2.5% 22,895 20,901 -7.8% 1.0% 21,105 10.0% 23,210
Yerington 3,162 1.3% 3,202 6.9% 3,424 -0.2% 3,418 2.1% 3,121 3,488 13.4% 1.4% 3,538 -3.2% 3,423
Mineral County 4,578 2.1% 4,674 0.3% 4,690 0.9% 4,730 3.5% 4,554 4,896 6.0% -1.4% 4,826 0.9% 4,870
Hawthorne 2,868 6.9% 3,066 0.0% 3,065 1.2% 3,100 3.0% 2,969 3,192 6.2% -1.3% 3,152 2.7% 3,236
Luning 123 -15.2% 105 1.6% 106 0.9% 107 -8.7% 91 98 1.0% -6.0% 92 11.0% 102
Mina 173 -0.2% 173 0.7% 174 0.1% 174 2.4% 166 179 -7.4% -13.8% 154 -6.8% 144
Walker Lake 403 -20.1% 322 1.6% 327 0.9% 330 2.0% 313 337 1.2% -5.9% 317 -16.9% 263
Nye County 45,737 1.4% 46,390 3.2% 47,856 1.3% 48,472 -0.1% 51,591 48,414 -4.5% 1.8% 49,289 4.1% 51,334
Amargosa 1,390 -3.3% 1,344 -1.2% 1,327 0.0% 1,327 7.9% 1,527 1,433 -8.2% -2.2% 1,401 27.3% 1,783
Beatty 950 1.2% 961 1.4% 974 2.5% 998 -6.4% 996 935 -3.7% 2.6% 959 10.4% 1,059
Gabbs 226 -3.4% 218 0.6% 220 0.7% 221 -39.9% 142 133 47.5% 57.2% 209 6.8% 223
Manhattan 130 -3.3% 126 1.7% 128 7.3% 138 -3.4% 142 133 -8.3% -2.2% 130 9.1% 142
Pahrump 38,238 2.1% 39,023 3.7% 40,473 1.5% 41,069 1.0% 44,204 41,482 -5.1% 1.1% 41,940 2.1% 42,828
Round Mountain 799 -3.3% 772 -0.5% 768 -0.7% 763 -2.5% 793 744 -7.5% -1.4% 734 4.3% 765
Tonopah 2,291 0.9% 2,311 -2.2% 2,259 -4.3% 2,163 -15.7% 1,942 1,823 11.7% 19.1% 2,170 14.9% 2,493
Pershing County 6,693 0.7% 6,743 1.7% 6,858 1.1% 6,935 0.7% 6,650 6,983 5.0% 0.0% 6,984 5.2% 7,344
Lovelock 1,915 0.9% 1,933 1.7% 1,965 1.0% 1,985 3.1% 1,805 2,046 12.4% -0.8% 2,029 2.7% 2,084
Imlay 208 -0.3% 207 -2.0% 203 2.5% 208 6.1% 217 221 -2.2% -4.0% 212 2.0% 216
Storey County 4,043 1.0% 4,084 3.5% 4,227 0.7% 4,258 1.1% 4,104 4,304 6.2% 1.3% 4,359 1.6% 4,427
Gold Hill 204 -0.8% 202 2.7% 207 -0.6% 206 7.6% 212 222 0.1% -4.5% 212 7.5% 228
Virginia City 845 0.6% 850 4.4% 887 1.9% 904 -12.0% 759 796 22.8% 17.1% 932 -1.5% 918
Washoe County 448,316 0.8% 451,923 1.8% 460,237 2.1% 469,801 0.8% 486,492 473,606 -0.3% 2.4% 485,113 3.4% 501,635
Reno 242,158 1.0% 244,612 1.7% 248,806 2.6% 255,170 1.2% 264,165 258,230 0.1% 2.4% 264,318 3.7% 274,129
Sparks 95,726 1.3% 96,928 3.3% 100,140 2.4% 102,543 0.7% 108,445 103,230 -0.9% 4.1% 107,489 4.0% 111,735
White Pine County 10,413 2.8% 10,705 -0.2% 10,678 1.4% 10,826 -3.2% 9,080 10,477 13.4% -1.8% 10,293 -2.8% 10,001
Ely 4,065 4.9% 4,267 -2.8% 4,149 1.6% 4,217 1.4% 3,924 4,275 5.5% -3.2% 4,138 -3.0% 4,015
Lund 202 1.2% 205 0.7% 206 -0.6% 205 -0.3% 170 205 22.3% 1.7% 208 -0.3% 207
McGill 1,166 2.2% 1,191 -0.4% 1,186 0.1% 1,187 2.0% 1,007 1,211 19.2% -0.9% 1,201 -1.4% 1,184
Ruth 437 2.8% 450 -0.2% 448 1.4% 455 -3.2% 366 440 18.1% -1.8% 432 -0.6% 430
*Issued by the Nevada Department of Taxation per NRS 360.283 for Certification by the Governor on or before March 1, 2023 
†Census counts are for reference only and are not part of the annual estimates certified by the Governor Page 3 of 3 
Page 155 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 156=====
LF-4 
Page 156 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 157=====
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 157 of 214
LVCVA Summary of Monthly Tourism Indicators for Las Vegas, NV LAS VEGAS CONVENTION AND VISITORS AUTHORITY (LVCVA) 
For Calendar Year 2023 
As of February 29, 2024 
Compiled by the LVCVA Research Center 
Tourism Indicators Jan 2023 Feb 2023 Mar 2023 Apr 2023 May 2023 Jun 2023 Jul 2023 Aug 2023 Sep 2023 Oct 2023 Nov 2023 Dec 2023 2023 YTD 
Visitor Volume 3,275,300 3,081,800 3,655,800 3,385,500 3,498,000 3,428,500 3,527,800 3,319,700 3,336,900 3,630,300 3,292,800 3,397,500 40,829,900 
Convention Attendance 513,000 663,400 771,000 369,400 453,900 455,500 270,300 647,600 407,900 640,600 598,400 195,700 5,986,700 
Available Room Inventory 151,771 151,743 151,752 151,839 151,839 151,839 151,718 151,914 151,999 152,289 152,299 154,662 154,662 
Total Occupancy 79.1% 82.2% 88.3% 84.3% 84.4% 85.5% 85.2% 80.3% 82.6% 87.7% 81.9% 79.9% 83.5% 
Weekend Occupancy 88.4% 89.3% 94.5% 92.4% 93.2% 90.2% 92.6% 89.7% 89.0% 94.2% 88.7% 87.7% 90.7% 
Midweek Occupancy 75.2% 78.8% 85.8% 80.9% 80.8% 83.5% 82.2% 77.0% 78.9% 85.4% 78.9% 75.0% 80.3% 
Strip Occupancy 81.4% 85.2% 90.5% 86.9% 87.0% 88.8% 88.1% 83.5% 84.7% 89.6% 85.3% 83.1% 86.2% 
Downtown Occupancy 66.4% 67.6% 76.4% 72.1% 71.4% 66.6% 67.0% 62.2% 73.3% 82.3% 65.6% 65.5% 69.7% 
Average Daily Room Rate (ADR) $191.62 $176.64 $213.25 $171.05 $183.40 $165.21 $163.14 $157.10 r $201.50 $233.22 $249.31 $186.82 $191.29 
Strip ADR $205.70 $188.18 $228.46 $182.76 $194.66 $175.78 $173.49 $165.94 r $215.54 $251.42 $270.17 $198.83 $204.42 
Downtown ADR $104.58 $95.23 $122.33 $92.17 $108.25 $88.44 $91.29 $87.71 $120.91 $126.78 $108.67 $104.64 $105.19 
Revenue Per Available Room (RevPAR) $151.57 $145.20 $188.30 $144.20 $154.79 $141.25 $139.00 $126.15 r $166.44 $204.53 $204.18 $149.27 $159.73 
Strip RevPAR $167.44 $160.33 $206.76 $158.82 $169.35 $156.09 $152.84 $138.56 r $182.56 $225.27 $230.46 $165.23 $176.21 
Downtown RevPAR $69.44 $64.38 $93.46 $66.45 $77.29 $58.90 $61.16 $54.56 $88.63 $104.34 $71.29 $68.54 $73.32 
Total Room Nights Occupied 3,719,400 3,492,900 4,154,500 3,841,200 3,971,400 3,896,100 4,007,600 3,780,600 3,767,600 4,140,700 3,740,200 3,831,300 46,343,300 
Total En/Deplaned Passengers 4,385,039 r 4,177,054 r 4,942,544 r 4,809,439 r 4,952,530 4,883,647 r 4,945,798 4,617,379 r 4,790,934 r 5,479,904 4,839,637 r 4,817,986 57,641,891 
Avg. Daily Auto Traffic: All Major Highways* 116,693 116,017 131,104 136,533 134,916 e 138,061 e 139,408 e 127,266 e 123,571 e 131,964 e 131,360 e 128,637 e 129,628 e 
Avg. Daily Auto Traffic: I-15 at NV/CA Border 40,501 38,414 43,256 45,294 47,107 47,135 49,727 44,147 40,480 42,277 45,844 46,276 44,205 
Gaming Revenue : Clark County $1,129,714,000 r $1,081,084,000 r $1,149,368,000 r $995,006,000 r $1,115,843,000 r $1,070,135,000 r $1,207,716,000 r $1,025,970,000 r $1,090,371,000 $1,137,339,000 r $1,214,947,000 r 1,269,778,000 13,487,271,000 
Gaming Revenue: Las Vegas Strip $713,238,000 r $712,395,000 r $724,585,000 r $624,723,000 r $715,925,000 r $727,370,000 r $834,899,000 $666,763,000 r $741,228,000 $714,482,000 $820,996,000 r 905,405,000 8,902,009,000 
Gaming Revenue: Downtown $84,894,000 r $74,190,000 r $87,434,000 r $74,505,000 r $73,661,000 r $62,551,000 r $65,382,000 r $63,979,000 r $68,370,000 $97,537,000 $81,179,000 75,885,000 909,567,000 
Gaming Revenue: Boulder Strip $96,385,000 $75,268,000 $86,326,000 $76,629,000 $89,850,000 $71,614,000 $79,412,000 $82,955,000 $67,403,000 $88,626,000 $83,362,000 67,710,000 965,539,000 
1 Room Tax / LVCVA's Portion $31,151,504 $25,423,013 $38,013,837 $27,946,600 $30,782,562 $26,248,647 $26,763,772 $25,161,828 $32,019,031 $40,412,231 $35,785,864 $27,025,624 $366,734,513 
Change from Previous Year Jan 2023 Feb 2023 Mar 2023 Apr 2023 May 2023 Jun 2023 Jul 2023 Aug 2023 Sep 2023 Oct 2023 Nov 2023 Dec 2023 2023 YTD 
Visitor Volume 32.3% 17.8% 9.6% 0.1% 1.5% 3.1% 1.0% 4.0% -0.5% -0.2% 0.8% 2.7% 5.2% 
Convention Attendance 72.0% 51.1% 56.0% -2.1% 16.1% -2.9% -16.8% 64.3% 9.5% 2.0% 2.7% -11.0% 19.9% 
Available Room Inventory 0.9% 0.7% 0.7% 0.9% 0.1% 0.2% 0.2% 0.5% 0.8% 0.9% 0.9% 2.5% 2.5% 
Total Occupancy 19.8 12.9 7.7 0.3 1.8 2.8 1.8 3.5 -0.5 0.0 0.7 0.8 4.3 
Weekend Occupancy 13.8 1.8 2.4 -0.8 1.3 0.2 1.5 -0.4 -3.1 0.2 -0.9 0.6 1.4 
Midweek Occupancy 23.2 18.1 9.2 1.5 2.0 3.5 3.1 4.8 0.3 0.3 1.4 0.3 5.6 
Strip Occupancy 20.2 14.2 7.6 0.2 1.5 2.7 1.8 3.9 -0.6 0.9 1.7 1.1 4.6 
Downtown Occupancy 15.3 6.1 7.3 2.1 0.3 0.5 0.5 2.5 1.6 -1.9 -5.2 0.1 2.4 
Average Daily Room Rate (ADR) 32.0% 18.1% 30.7% -3.3% 4.3% 5.3% 1.7% 6.1% 7.7% 11.1% 33.7% 5.7% 11.9% 
Strip ADR 33.7% 18.2% 31.6% -2.6% 4.2% 5.0% 1.8% 5.3% 8.0% 11.4% 35.0% 5.8% 12.3% 
Downtown ADR 15.1% 6.7% 24.9% -10.8% 8.4% 2.5% -4.0% 1.0% 2.5% 7.9% 10.6% -0.2% 5.3% 
Revenue Per Available Room (RevPAR) 76.0% 40.1% 43.2% -3.0% 6.6% 8.8% 3.9% 10.9% 7.0% 11.1% 34.8% 6.8% 18.0% 
Strip RevPAR 77.8% 41.8% 43.6% -2.4% 6.1% 8.3% 3.9% 10.5% 7.3% 12.5% 37.7% 7.2% 18.6% 
Downtown RevPAR 49.5% 17.3% 38.1% -8.2% 8.8% 3.2% -3.3% 5.2% 4.8% 5.5% 2.5% 0.0% 9.0% 
Total Room Nights Occupied 34.5% 19.4% 10.3% 1.3% 2.2% 3.6% 2.4% 5.1% 0.2% 0.9% 1.8% 3.5% 6.2% 
Total En/Deplaned Passengers 39.3% 24.9% 15.7% 13.0% 8.2% 4.2% 1.7% -0.5% 0.7% 5.7% 6.1% 10.2% 9.4% 
Avg. Daily Auto Traffic: All Major Highways* 6.7% -3.7% 3.4% 1.2% 2.5% 3.3% 0.8% 0.1% 0.2% 0.3% 0.8% 0.3% 1.3% 
Avg. Daily Auto Traffic: I-15 at NV/CA Border 5.4% -8.5% -1.3% -6.8% -0.9% -2.8% -5.4% -3.3% -1.6% -5.0% -4.6% -2.8% -3.3% 
Gaming Revenue : Clark County 21.6% 13.8% -2.5% 3.6% -1.0% -3.5% 7.5% 0.2% 2.8% 2.9% 14.3% 9.8% 5.5% 
Gaming Revenue: Las Vegas Strip 25.7% 18.9% -2.9% 5.3% -2.1% -1.0% 8.0% 1.1% 6.9% 1.2% 22.6% 11.2% 7.4% 
Gaming Revenue: Downtown 25.4% 7.5% 1.2% 10.6% -6.6% -10.4% 8.9% -0.8% -7.9% 7.8% -1.9% 10.3% 3.3% 
Gaming Revenue: Boulder Strip 13.3% 3.4% -10.8% 5.7% 1.5% -16.7% 9.2% -6.2% -9.4% 10.3% -2.2% 6.1% -0.1% 
1 Room Tax / LVCVA's Portion 63.3% 27.2% 35.3% -7.4% -1.0% -2.9% -1.5% 4.8% 8.1% 9.5% 20.0% 3.4% 11.4% 
Sources: Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority; Harry Reid International Airport; Nevada Department of Transportation (NDOT); NV Gaming Control Board 
Notes: e - estimate; r - revised 
Occupancy, ADR and RevPAR data are derived from a survey sample representing more than 75% of the Las Vegas hotel inventory. 
Inherent variability in survey sampling and occasional variations in survey participants can affect monthly and year-over-year comparisons. 
Air passengers and auto traffic counts are a blend of commercial, pass-thru and resident traffic in addition to visitors. 
1 – Room Tax amounts exclude portions dedicated to Las Vegas Convention Center expansion funding from SB-1 legislation.
For more information, visit www.lvcva.com/stats-and-facts/ 
May not foot due to rounding 
LF-4 
Page 1 of 1
LVCA Summary for 2023.xlsx 
=====PDFPAGE 158=====
LF-5 
Page 158 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 159=====
LF-5 
Page 1 of 54
2023-2080 
Population Forecasts 
LONG-TERM PROJECTIONS FOR CLARK COUNTY, NEVADA 
May 2023 
Prepared by 
Center for Business and Economic Research 
Prepared for 
Regional Transportation Commission of Southern Nevada, 
Southern Nevada Water Authority, 
and members of the Forecasting Group 
Page 159 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 160=====
LF-5 
Page 2 of 54
Prepared for 
Regional Transportation Commission of Southern Nevada, 
Southern Nevada Water Authority, 
and members of the Forecasting Group. 
Copyright ©2023 by the UNLV Center for Business and Economic Research 
The views expressed represent those of the authors and do not necessarily represent those of the University of 
Nevada, Las Vegas or the Nevada System of Higher Education. 
University of Nevada, Las Vegas 
Box 456002 
4505 S. Maryland Parkway 
Las Vegas, Nevada 89154-6002 
(702) 895-3191 
CBER@unlv.edu 
http://cber.unlv.edu 
Page 160 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 161=====
LF-5 
Page 3 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
Executive Summary 
Each year, the Regional Transportation Commission of Southern Nevada (RTC), the Southern Nevada 
Water Authority (SNWA), a group of community demographers and analysts, and the Center for Business 
and Economic Research (CBER) at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas work together to develop a long￾term forecast of Clark County's population and its growth that is consistent with the structural economic 
characteristics of the county. Toward this end, CBER employs a general-equilibrium demographic and 
economic model developed by Regional Economic Models, Inc. (REMI), specifically for Clark County. 
We recalibrate the REMI model to incorporate the most recent available information regarding 
local employment and its growth and known local public and private investment in large-scale projects. 
The resulting long-term forecast predicts positive population growth throughout the range of the forecast. 
The Southern Nevada Regional Planning Coalition (SNRPC) estimates that Clark County’s population was 
2.33 million in 2022, a slight decrease of 0.05 percent from 2021, which largely reflects the 2020 Decennial 
Census adjustments. We expect that Clark County’s population will reach approximately 2.85 million by 
2040 and nearly 3.43 million by 2080. 
Table 1 summarizes the Clark County population forecast, which CBER predicts will grow steadily 
in the short term at rates of 1.8 in 2023, 1.4 percent in 2024, and 1.3 percent in 2025 with a modest 
expansion of the local economy. The population growth rate will hit 2.3 percent in 2026, boosted by 
infrastructure investment, including the high-speed rail project and new hotel room construction. In the 
medium term, CBER expects the population growth rate to show modest growth, but the growth rate 
beginning in 2027 will start to decline over time with decreases in natural growth. That is, its growth rate 
tapers off as Clark County’s population ages over time. As the Clark County economy continues to mature, 
the population growth stabilizes around 0.3 percent after 2074. 
As with any forecast, potential risks exist that could lead to either an over- or under-forecast of 
population and its growth rate. CBER believes that the risk of over-forecasting population and its growth 
rate may exceed the risk of under-forecasting in the near term due to ongoing important economic 
uncertainties. The U.S. economy has slowed recently with the Fed’s policy of higher interest rates, where 
it raises the federal funds rate to squash high inflation. Additional policy uncertainties exist that the 
forecast does not reflect. These policy uncertainties include but are not limited to potential responses to 
drought and water scarcity in the Western United States as well as the potential local shortages of 
“developable” land parcels. Our long-term forecasts, however, exclude business-cycle, seasonal, and 
irregular events, which respond to short-run risks. In summary, our forecast primarily provides a long￾I 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 161 of 214
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
=====PDFPAGE 162=====
LF-5 
Page 4 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
term planning tool that addresses the trend movements in population, excluding the short-run business￾cycle, seasonal, and irregular effects. 
Table 1. Clark County Final Population Forecast: 2015-2080 
Year Population 
Forecast 
Change in Population 
Forecast 
Growth in Population 
Forecast 
2015 2,147,641* 45,403 2.2% 
2016 2,205,207* 57,566 2.7% 
2017 2,248,390* 43,183 2.0% 
2018 2,284,616* 36,226 1.6% 
2019 2,325,798* 41,182 1.8% 
2020 2,376,683* 50,885 2.2% 
2021 2,333,092* -43,591 -1.8% 
2022 2,331,934* -1,158 -0.05% 
2023 2,374,000** 42,066 1.8% 
2024 2,407,000** 33,000 1.4% 
2025 2,438,000** 31,000 1.3% 
2026 2,494,000 56,000 2.3% 
2027 2,542,000 48,000 1.9% 
2028 2,583,000 41,000 1.6% 
2029 2,617,000 34,000 1.3% 
2030 2,645,000 28,000 1.1% 
2031 2,670,000 25,000 0.9% 
2032 2,691,000 21,000 0.8% 
2033 2,711,000 20,000 0.7% 
2034 2,731,000 20,000 0.7% 
2035 2,750,000 19,000 0.7% 
2036 2,770,000 20,000 0.7% 
2037 2,789,000 19,000 0.7% 
2038 2,809,000 20,000 0.7% 
2039 2,828,000 19,000 0.7% 
2040 2,848,000 20,000 0.7% 
2045 2,935,000 16,000 0.5% 
2050 3,014,000 15,000 0.5% 
2055 3,095,000 17,000 0.6% 
2060 3,176,000 16,000 0.5% 
2065 3,250,000 14,000 0.4% 
2070 3,315,000 13,000 0.4% 
2075 3,374,000 11,000 0.3% 
2080 3,427,000 10,000 0.3% 
* SNRPC consensus population estimate. 
**CBER 2023 Economic Outlook forecast, April 2023 
Note: The changes and growth rates in population forecasts after 2040 are not cumulative. The forecast changes and growth 
rates represent the annual values. See Table C2 for the complete set of forecasts. 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 162 of 214
 
 
II 
=====PDFPAGE 163=====
LF-5 
Page 5 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Executive Summary.....................................................................................................................I 
I. Introduction....................................................................................................................... 1 
II. Comparison of REMI Models: Current and Previous Year .................................................2 
III. Recalibrating the Model ....................................................................................................9 
A. Adjustment of the national economic forecast ...........................................................9 
B. Rebasing the population forecast I ...........................................................................11 
C. Employment adjustment...........................................................................................11 
D. Hotel room adjustment.............................................................................................15 
E. Transportation and infrastructure improvements ....................................................17 
F. Rebasing the population forecast II ..........................................................................18 
IV. Analysis of the Economic and Demographic Forecast .....................................................19 
A. Population ................................................................................................................20 
B. Employment..............................................................................................................22 
C. Gross domestic product ............................................................................................23 
V. Comparing the Current Forecast with Forecasts of Previous Years.................................25 
VI. Risks to the Forecast........................................................................................................26 
VII. Conclusion.......................................................................................................................28 
Appendices: .............................................................................................................................29 
Appendix A: Computation of the Weighted Jobs-to-Room Ratio ....................................29 
Appendix B: Hotel/Motel Room Construction.................................................................32 
Appendix C: Detailed Report Tables................................................................................34 
III 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 163 of 214
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
=====PDFPAGE 164=====
LF-5 
Page 6 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
LIST OF TABLES 
Table 1. Clark County Final Population Forecast: 2015-2080 .......................................................II 
Table 2. Clark County REMI Out-of-the-Box Forecast Comparison: LHY2020 and LHY2019 
........................................................................................................................................8 
Table 3. BEA Estimates vs. REMI Out-of-the-Box Forecasts (in thousands) 
for the U.S. Employment in 2021..................................................................................10 
Table 4. Model Job Adjustments (in millions) for 2021 with BEA Estimates ..............................12 
Table 5. Employment Growth Rates for Clark County before DETR Adjustment for 2022 .........13 
Table 6. Model Job Adjustments (in thousands) for 2022 with DETR Estimates ........................14 
Table 7. Expected Additional Employment due to New Rooms: Projections for 2023-2025......16 
Table 8. Population History, REMI Forecasts, and Final Rebased Forecasts...............................21 
Table 9. Employment Forecasts .................................................................................................23 
Table 10. Gross Domestic Product Forecasts (Billions of Fixed 2023 Dollar)................................24 
Table A1. Computation of the Jobs-to-Room Ratio by Sequence (1) – (5) ...................................30 
Table B1. Expected Hotel/Motel Room Construction from 2023 and 2025 .................................32 
Table B2. Expected Casino or Non-Casino Room Construction from 2023 and 2025 ...................32 
Table C1. Out-of-the-Box Clark County Population and Population Growth Forecasts 
from REMI Models LHY2020 and LHY2019 ...................................................................34 
Table C2. Detailed Final Clark County Population Forecast: 2015-2080.......................................35 
Table C3. Economic Forecast........................................................................................................37 
Table C4. Employment (in thousands)..........................................................................................38 
Table C5. Gross Domestic Product (billions of fixed 2023 $) ........................................................40 
Table C6. Income (billions of fixed 2023 $)...................................................................................42 
Table C7. Population and Labor Force (in thousands)..................................................................44 
Table C8 Demographics (in thousands).......................................................................................45 
IV 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 164 of 214
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
=====PDFPAGE 165=====
LF-5 
Page 7 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
LIST OF FIGURES 
Figure 1. Clark County Population Forecasts: REMI Out-of-the-Box 
LHY2020 and LHY2019: 2023-2080.................................................................................6 
Figure 2. Clark County Population Growth Rate Forecasts: REMI Out-of-the-Box 
Figure 3. Clark County Net Migrant and Net Economic Migrant Forecasts: 
Figure 4. Clark County Net International Migrant Forecasts: REMI Out-of-the-Box 
LHY2020 and LHY2019: 2023-2080.................................................................................6 
REMI Out-of-the-Box LHY2020 and LHY2019: 2023-2080...............................................7 
LHY2020 and LHY2019: 2023-2080.................................................................................7 
Figure 5. U.S. Real GDP Forecasts: RSQE vs. REMI Out-of-the-Box from 2021 to 2024 ...............10 
Figure 6. The Estimated Federal and Private Funding Allocation for the Regional 
Transportation Plan for Southern Nevada 2023-2050..................................................18 
Figure 7. Clark County Population Growth Rate Forecasts Before and After Rebasing II: 
2023-2025 ....................................................................................................................19 
Figure 8. Population Growth Rate Forecasts: Clark County vs. United States .............................22 
Figure 9 Clark County Historical Population Growth Rate Forecasts: 2023-2035.......................25 
Figure B1.Expected Hotel/Motel Room Construction Map ..........................................................33 
V 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 165 of 214
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
=====PDFPAGE 166=====
LF-5 
Page 8 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
Acknowledgements 
CBER thanks the members of the Population Forecasting Group for comments on earlier drafts of this 
report. 
VI 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 166 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 167=====
LF-5 
Page 9 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
I. Introduction 
Each year, the Regional Transportation Commission of Southern Nevada (RTC), the Southern Nevada 
Water Authority (SNWA), a group of community demographers and analysts, and the Center for Business 
and Economic Research (CBER) at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas work together to provide a long￾term forecast of economic and demographic variables influencing Clark County. The primary goal is to 
develop a long-term forecast of the Clark County population and its growth that is consistent with the 
structural economic characteristics of the county. Toward this end, CBER employs a general-equilibrium 
demographic and economic model developed by Regional Economic Models, Inc. (REMI), specifically for 
Clark County. 
The REMI model is a state-of-the-art econometric forecasting model that accounts for dynamic 
feedback between economic and demographic variables. Special features allow the user to update the 
model to include the most current economic information. CBER recalibrates the model using information 
on recent local employment levels, the most recent national Gross Domestic Product (GDP) forecast, and 
spending on locally known large-scale capital projects. 
The model employed divides Nevada into five regions: Clark County; Nye County; Lincoln County; 
Washoe County; and the remaining counties, which are combined to form a fifth region. These regions 
are modeled using the U.S. economy as a backdrop. The model contains over 100 economic and 
demographic relationships that are carefully constructed to represent accurately and concisely the Clark 
County economy. The model includes equations to account for migration and trade between Nevada 
counties and other states and counties in the country. 
The demographic and economic data used to construct the model begin in 2001 and end in 2020. 
The most important variables include the aggregate totals of employment, the labor force, and 
population. The economic data for the most recent version of the model (REMI PI+ v3.0) are consistent 
with the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS). The REMI PI+ v3.0 model was released in 
2022. Hence, the model’s most recent data come from 2020, since the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) 
personal-income data only become available with a two-year lag. The availability of the most recent 
income data sets the last year of history with each release of an updated model. 
The REMI model is the best model available for describing how economies interact 
geographically.1 These interactions may take place within a single economy (such as the interaction 
1 See Schwer, R. K. and D. Rickman (1995), “A comparison of the multipliers of IMPLAN, REMI and RIMS II: Benchmarking ready￾made models for comparison,” The Annals of Regional Science, 29(4), 363-374. 
1 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 167 of 214
 
 
 
 
 
 
=====PDFPAGE 168=====
LF-5 
Page 10 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
between house-price growth and employment growth in Clark County) or between two economies (such 
as the interaction between Southern Nevada and Southern California through migration flows). These and 
over 100 other interactions contained within the model are too complex to consider modeling on our 
own. Rather, we turn to the REMI model because it has a solid foundation in economic theory and the 
principles of general-equilibrium-based growth and distribution theory, yet it still offers the flexibility 
required to model a regional economy like Clark County. 
To guarantee that the model incorporates the most recent, available data, we make a series of 
adjustments to the model. These adjustments ensure that the forecast model includes the most up-to￾date information when generating the final forecast. First, we update the model’s national GDP and 
employment forecast, using the latest available national economic data from the Bureau of Economic 
Analysis (BEA) and the latest forecast from the University of Michigan’s Research Seminar in Quantitative 
Economics (RSQE). Second, we rebase the population forecast to the most recent population estimate for 
Clark County available from the Southern Nevada Regional Planning Coalition (SNRPC). Third, we update 
the model with current Clark County employment data from the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) and 
the Nevada Department of Employment, Training and Rehabilitation (DETR). Fourth, we adjust future 
hotel employment based on the expected number of hotel rooms that will be added in the near future. 
Fifth, we incorporate planned new investment in public and private infrastructure in the model using 
information, for example, from the RTC and the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority (LVCVA). 
Lastly, we rebase the population forecasts that were generated by all the adjustments mentioned above 
with the most recent short-term Clark County population forecasts from CBER. 
This report proceeds as follows. Section II examines the changes in the REMI model (out-of-the￾box benchmark forecast) from the prior years’ models. Section III presents sequentially the changes made 
to update the model and tailor it to more recent Clark County information. Section IV reports the 
population forecast and gives a brief discussion of the economic environment surrounding the forecast. 
Section V compares the population growth rate forecast with the previous years’ forecasts. Section VI 
discusses the risks to the forecast. Finally, section VII concludes. 
II. Comparison of REMI Models: Current and Previous Year 
Based on past practice, we begin by comparing the most recent REMI out-of-the-box benchmark forecast 
prior to any model adjustments with the corresponding out-of-the-box benchmark forecasts from the 
REMI models used in prior reports. This allows us to examine how the new model differs from previous 
versions and to explore the basis of these differences. 
2 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 168 of 214
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
=====PDFPAGE 169=====
LF-5 
Page 11 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
The most recent data used to develop this year’s REMI model end with observations from 2020. 
Thus, we refer to the current model by its last historical year 2020 (LHY2020) and the previous model by 
its last historical year 2019 (LHY2019). 
Each year, the REMI staff and users discuss how the model works and propose adjustments and 
changes to improve the model’s performance. The newest REMI model, PI+ v3.0, offers two major 
improvements: it includes the recent BLS employment projections from 2020 to 20302 as well as updated 
state and local government spending parameters. In addition, the new REMI model contains the most 
recent data history for 2020 and a revision of historical data back to 2001. The latest REMI model also 
offers additional years in the forecast period, running through 2080 instead of 2060. 
REMI uses the BLS employment projections, which provide insight to guide its employment and 
labor force growth rates in the future. BLS revised down employment forecasts with the 2020-2030 
projections compared to the 2019-2029 employment projections, which resulted in lower baseline 
employment forecasts produced by LHY2020 compared to LHY2019. Although the 2020-2030 projections 
expect that employment will grow at an annual rate of 0.7 percent over the next 10 years, this rate would 
have been only 0.1 percent, if the projection period started in 2019. BLS predicted 0.4 percent growth per 
year for the 2019-2029 employment projections, which is much higher than 0.1 percent from the 2020-
2030 employment projections when including 2019. Despite the lower employment growth projections, 
the combination of employment growth by industry generated higher growth projections for Clark County 
compared to the United States with LHY2020. The 2020-2030 projections expect that leisure and 
hospitality, and healthcare and social assistance employment will grow by 2.2 and 1.6 percent, 
respectively, per year from 2020 to 2030. The REMI model also incorporated the labor-force projections 
from the 2020-2030 projections, which led to higher labor-force forecasts for Clark County with LHY2020 
compared to LHY2019. This partly resulted in lower relative employment opportunity (REO) forecasts, 
which led to lower economic migration3 forecasts for LHY2020 compared to LHY2019. 
2 https://www.bls.gov/opub/mlr/2021/article/projections-overview-and-highlights-2020-30.htm. 3 Economic migrants, under 65, emigrate from other regions to improve their living standards and seek better job opportunities. 
Three major components attract these interstate migrants according to REMI: relative employment opportunities, relative 
compensation rates, and amenity values. Relative employment opportunity captures employment opportunities in the region 
compared to the U.S. average. The relative compensation rate measures the real compensation (adjusted for taxes and housing 
prices in the region) rate compared to the national average level, while amenity values include factors such as climate, community 
safety, education, and so on. Economic migrants are working-age migrants who not only contribute to local human capital 
resources but also boost the development of local businesses. 
3 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 169 of 214
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
=====PDFPAGE 170=====
LF-5 
Page 12 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
REMI also updated and improved their state and local government spending equation 
specification and re-estimated the parameters of this government spending equation with the LHY2020 
model. The GDP elasticities of state and local government expenditure were re-estimated by using the 
data from 1997 to 2019, while the previous parameters were calculated in 2015 by using the data from 
1997 to 2011. According to REMI, the U.S. population grew by 20.4 percent from 1997 to 2019, while 
combined state and local government expenditure jumped significantly by 74.9 percent over the same 
period. Nevada experienced an 83.0 percent increase in combined state and local government 
expenditure even though the state posted the fastest population growth at 75.2 percent from 1997 to 
2019. Interestingly, Nevada’s GDP only increased by 74.2 percent despite a 75.2 percent growth in 
population, while the U.S. experienced 70.0 and 20.4 percent gains in GDP and population, respectively. 
REMI reports that the new GDP elasticities per capita of government spending are 0.44 and 0.62, 
respectively, for state and local government spending, which exceed the previous estimates of 0.38 and 
0.50. A higher number suggests a stronger effect of GDP per capita on government spending. The new 
estimates for Nevada were 0.76 and 0.95, respectively, for state and local government spending, which 
compares to the previous estimates of 0.73 and 0.95. According to REMI, the re-estimated parameters 
may create a few additional jobs compared to the previous model, which may cause a minimal effect on 
the region’s population forecast. 
Finally, the REMI model not only contains updated historical data back to 2001 but also the most 
recent data history for 2020, which partly affected LHY2020’s lower population growth rate forecasts 
compared to the LHY2019 model. As the model incorporated revised annual estimates from BEA for 
county and metropolitan area personal income and GDP, the real relative compensation rate (RWR) 
estimates were revised down compared to the previous model, which resulted in lower RWR forecasts 
from 2023 to 2044. This partly lowered the economic migration forecasts from LHY2020 when compared 
to LHY2019. These updates lead to differences in the out-of-the-box population forecasts between the 
LHY2020 and LHY2019 models. 
Figures 1 and 2 compare the LHY2020 and LHY2019 population forecasts from the out-of-the-box 
models (i.e., before any updating for employment, infrastructure projects, the national GDP forecast, 
etc.).4 The out-of-the-box population forecast arising from the LHY2019 model predicts higher population 
levels than the LHY2020 model from 2028 to 2060. Regarding population levels, the out-of-the-box model 
forecasts population in the LHY2020 model for 2023 is approximately 66,000 higher than the LHY2019 
4 The detailed out-of-the-box results through 2080 appear in Table C1 of Appendix C. 
4 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 170 of 214
 
 
 
 
 
 
=====PDFPAGE 171=====
LF-5 
Page 13 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
model. The level forecast from LHY2019, however, surpasses the LHY2020 forecast in the year 2028, and 
the gap increases until 2044 by approximately 108,000 as LHY2019 has higher population growth forecasts 
than LHY2020 from 2023 to 2044. After 2044, the gap starts to decline from its peak in 2044 to 41,000 in 
the year 2060 due to LHY2020’s higher population growth forecasts from 2045 to 2060, but the out-of￾the-box forecasted population in LHY2020 is still lower than the forecast from LHY2019 in 2060. 
Both the LHY2020 and LHY2019 models forecast decreasing trend in the growth rate over the 
forecast period (Figure 2). The population growth forecasts mirror the net migration forecasts (Figure 3). 
The LHY2019 model forecasts a growth rate of population that exceeds the growth rate of the LHY2020 
model from 2023 to 2044, which reflect lower net migration5 for LHY2020 compared to LHY2019 from 
2023 to 2043. After 2044, both LHY2020 population growth and net-migration forecasts exceed those of 
the LHY2019 model. Despite a slightly larger net-migration forecast for LHY2020 in the year 2044, the 
population growth forecast for LHY2020 is lower compared to LHY2019 due to a smaller natural-increase 
(births - deaths) forecast for LHY2020 with -3,940 compared to -3,333 for LHY2019. The LHY2020 model 
predicts negative natural increases from 2035 while the LHY2019 model forecasts negative natural 
increase from 2039. The LHY2020 model predicts lower natural-increase forecasts from 2023 to 2048, 
which largely reflects lower birth-rate forecasts for LHY2020 from 2023 to 2043 and lower survival-rate 
forecasts for LHY2020 from 2023 to 2052 compared to LHY2019. 
The lower net migration projections from 2023 to 2043 for LHY2020 compared to LHY2019 mainly 
reflect the lower net-economic-migration forecasts for the LHY2020 relative to the LHY2019 models 
(Figure 3). Economic-migration forecasts from LHY2020 are much lower than those of the LHY2019 model 
over the entire forecast horizon through 2060. Higher net-international-migration forecasts for the 
LHY2020 model, however, boosted the net-migration forecasts for LHY2020 as net-international￾migration projections for LHY2020 are much higher than those from LHY2019 by approximately 11,000 
for each forecasted year (Figure 4). 
5 The REMI model defines four components of net migration: economic, retired, special, and international migration. Economic 
migrants include individuals under 65 who emigrate from other regions to improve their living standards and to seek better job 
opportunities. Retired migrants include individuals 65 and older who move from one region to another and do not respond to 
economic conditions. The REMI model explains that economic migrants are the difference between the net domestic migrants 
and the net retired migrants. Special migrants include prisoners, college students, and military personnel and their dependents. 
Finally, net international migration includes migrants who move from outside the United States and into the 50 states and the 
District of Columbia, which includes migrants relocated from Puerto Rico and U.S. territories, Armed Forces, permanent and 
temporary migrants such as students, refugees, and illegal migrants. 
5 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 171 of 214
 
 
 
 
 
 
=====PDFPAGE 172=====
LF-5 
Page 14 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
Figure 1. Clark County Population Forecasts: REMI Out-of-the-Box LHY2020 and LHY2019: 2023-
2080 
Note: Out-of-the-box refers to the model prior to recalibration. These numbers are not the final forecast. 
Figure 2. Clark County Population Growth Rate Forecasts: REMI Out-of-the-Box LHY2020 and 
LHY2019: 2023-2080 
Note: Out-of-the-box refers to the model prior to recalibration. These numbers are not the final forecast. 
6 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 172 of 214
 
=====PDFPAGE 173=====
LF-5 
Page 15 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
Figure 3. Clark County Net Migrant and Net Economic Migrant Forecasts: REMI Out-of-the-Box 
LHY2020 and LHY2019: 2023-2080 
Note: Out-of-the-box refers to the model prior to recalibration. These numbers are not the final forecast. 
Figure 4. Clark County Net International Migrant Forecasts: REMI Out-of-the-Box LHY2020 and 
LHY2019: 2023-2080 
Note: Out-of-the-box refers to the model prior to recalibration. These numbers are not the final forecast. 
7 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 173 of 214
 
=====PDFPAGE 174=====
LF-5 
Page 16 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
Table 2 compares the REMI out-of-the-box economic and demographic forecasts between the 
LHY2020 and LHY2019 models for the period between 2023 and 2060. The LHY2020 out-of-the-box model 
forecasts a stronger Clark County economy in 2060 in terms of real GDP as Clark County GDP will account 
for 0.64 percent of the US real GDP, which is higher than 0.63 percent for LHY2019. In terms of 
employment, however, the LHY2020 out-of-the-box model projects that Clark County employment will 
account for 0.72 percent of total U.S. employment in 2060, which is smaller than the 0.73 percent from 
LHY2019. Despite a lower net-migration forecast in 2023 for the LHY2020 model relative to the LHY2019 
model, the population forecast is higher for LHY2020, as the Census estimated a 2,315,963 population in 
Clark County in 2020, while the LHY2019 model forecasts a 2,281,517 population in 2020. The Census, 
however, revised their estimate to 2,273,386, 1.8 percent lower than their previous estimate by the time 
the LHY2020 model was released. The population forecast in 2060 for LHY2020 is lower compared to 
LHY2019 largely due to a cumulative effect of reduced forecasts in net economic migration over the entire 
forecast period (Figure 3). Note that the lower population forecast for LHY2020 in the year 2060 reflects 
a smaller projected population ages 65 and over compared to LHY2019. 
Table 2. Clark County REMI Out-of-the-Box Forecast Comparison: LHY2020 and LHY2019 
2023 2060 
LHY2020 LHY2019 
Change 
to 
forecast 
LHY2020 LHY2019 
Change 
to 
forecast 
Population (Thousands) 2,409.82 2,343.62 2.8% 3,061.41 3,102.77 -1.3% 
Total Employment (Thousands) 1,384.66 1,349.94 2.6% 1,658.11 1,713.58 -3.2% 
Total Employment as % of Nation 0.66 0.66 0.2% 0.72 0.73 -1.3% 
Gross Domestic Product (Billions of 
Fixed 2012 Dollars) 123.33 117.66 4.8% 243.35 239.98 1.4% 
Gross Regional Product as % of 
Nation 0.58 0.57 1.4% 0.64 0.63 0.5% 
Migrants (Thousands) 
Economic Migrants 2.96 19.16 -84.5% 1.93 7.71 -75.0% 
Retired Migrants 5.91 5.96 -0.9% 8.36 8.60 -2.8% 
International Migrants 10.58 -1.00 -1154.5% 9.94 -0.97 -1125.7% 
Population by Age (Thousands) 
Ages 0-14 438.68 426.56 2.8% 463.08 459.56 0.8% 
Ages 15-24 293.96 283.72 3.6% 331.92 330.87 0.3% 
Ages 25-64 1,270.77 1,225.17 3.7% 1,482.64 1,468.89 0.9% 
Ages 65+ 406.41 408.18 -0.4% 783.77 843.45 -7.1% 
Note: The numbers for both LHY2020 and LHY2019 models refer to the models prior to adjustments. 
8 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 174 of 214
 
 
 
 
 
 
=====PDFPAGE 175=====
LF-5 
Page 17 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
III. Recalibrating the Model 
As noted previously, county-level personal income data only become available with a two-year lag. As a 
result, the REMI model also imposes a two-year lag on all its data history that ends with 2020 data for the 
current model, PI+ v3.0, released in 2022. To update the model, we incorporate available, pertinent model 
information, including the most recent national GDP forecast, the most recent population estimates from 
SNRPC and forecasts from CBER, the most recent employment figures and forecasts, and the spending on 
public and private capital projects to reflect Clark County information in the forecast. We describe each 
update in sequence. 
A. Adjustment of the national economic forecast 
The REMI model relies on a baseline national GDP forecast from the University of Michigan’s RSQE. The 
PI+v3.0 model includes the RSQE’s February 2022 release, and its latest historical year is 2020. We adjust 
the model’s national GDP forecast using BEA’s most recent data and the February 2023 national GDP 
forecast from RSQE. Figure 5 displays the comparison between RSQE and REMI out-of-the-box forecasts6 
for 2023 and 2024. BEA estimates that the national real GDP expanded by 5.9 and 2.1 percent, 
respectively, in 2021 and 2022, while the REMI model forecasted 5.6 and 4.0 percent real GDP growth. 
The REMI model predicts 2.7 and 1.4 percent increases for the real GDP in 2023 and 2024, respectively, 
while the most recent RSQE’s forecasts expect, respectively, 1.2 and 0.7 percent growth. The downward 
revisions in forecasts largely respond to reduced residential investment forecasts, which reflect sharper 
interest rate increases than expected. 
CBER also updates the REMI model with the most recent national employment data from BEA. 
BEA provides 2021 employment estimates by detailed sectors. That is, BEA estimates that the United 
States had 201.14 million employees in 2021, which is much higher than REMI’s projection of 197.00 
million (Table 3). This difference largely reflects the 2020 estimate revision by BEA, which previously 
reported total jobs of 190.78 million in 2020 and revised the estimate to 195.30 million jobs with the 
revision. This justifies the need to update the REMI model. The adjusted national forecast generates a 
new baseline forecast for Clark County. We, then, use the baseline forecast for the subsequent 
adjustments. 
6 All out-of-the-box forecasts use the original REMI PI+v3.0 model before any REMI updates. 
cber.unlv.edu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 175 of 214
9 
=====PDFPAGE 176=====
LF-5 
Page 18 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
Figure 5. U.S. Real GDP Forecasts: RSQE vs. REMI Out-of-the-Box from 2021 to 2024 
BEA & RSQE Out-of-the-box 1.2% 2.7% 
2.1% 
4.0% 
 
 
5.9% 
5.6% 
0.7% 
1.4% 
2021 2022 2023 2024 
Note: REMI out-of-the-box growth rates from 2021 to 2023 reflect the RSQE’s February 2022 forecasts. For BEA & RSQE, the 
growth rates for 2021 and 2022 are based on the BEA estimate, but the growth rates for 2023 and 2024 show the February 2023 
projections by RSQE. 
Table 3. BEA Estimates vs. REMI Out-of-the-Box Forecasts (in millions) for the U.S. Employment in 
2021 
INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION REMI FORECASTS BEA ESTIMATES 
Forestry, fishing, and hunting 0.94 0.93 
Mining 0.91 0.92 
Utilities 0.58 0.60 
Construction 10.78 11.67 
Manufacturing 13.31 13.08 
Wholesale trade 6.54 6.31 
Retail trade 19.25 19.12 
Transportation and warehousing 9.61 10.40 
Information 3.36 3.41 
Finance and insurance 10.59 11.72 
Real estate and rental and leasing 9.02 10.10 
Professional, scientific, and technical services 14.83 14.81 
Management of companies and enterprises 2.79 2.75 
Administrative, support, waste mgmt, and remediation services 12.08 12.43 
Educational services; private 4.62 4.68 
Health care and social assistance 22.66 22.88 
Amusement, gambling, recreation 3.88 4.16 
Accommodation and food services 13.85 13.55 
Other services (except public administration) 10.55 10.96 
State & local government 19.27 19.18 
Federal civilian 3.06 2.94 
Federal military 1.87 1.93 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 176 of 214
10 
=====PDFPAGE 177=====
LF-5 
Page 19 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
Farm 2.64 2.59 
TOTAL 197.00 201.14 
Note: Although BEA does not provide employment in 3-digit NAICS sectors at the county level, it provides 3-digit NACIS 
employment at the national level. Therefore, CBER incorporated the 2021 employment estimates for 70 sectors from BEA into 
the model. The table above shows the 23 sector employment estimates. 
B. Rebasing the population forecast I 
We rebase the population forecast using the population update feature in the REMI model. We update 
the population in 2022 based on the most recent SNRPC Clark County population estimates, that is 2.33 
million, a slight decline of 0.05 percent from 2021. The SNRPC population estimates have decreased for 
the last two years, which largely reflects the 2020 Decennial Census of 2.27 million in 2020. 
C. Employment adjustment 
The county-level employment data in REMI come from the BEA’s local area personal income data, which 
only includes a 23-sector breakout. Even though the BEA reports the county-level employment data for 
23 sectors, the BEA supplies the county-level wage data for 70 sectors. This means that REMI calculates 
employment for 70 sectors by incorporating the county-level wage data. Although the most recent 
historical year in the model’s employment data is 2020, BEA employment data are available for 2021. 
Table 4 shows the REMI out-of-the-box forecasts and BEA estimates for Clark County employment for 23 
sectors. The total employment between the REMI forecast and BEA estimate for 2021 appears different 
by approximately 59 thousand, which largely reflects the 2020 estimate revisions by BEA from 1,240 
thousand to 1,284 thousand. To ensure that the model reflects the accurate employment information by 
sector for 2021, we update the model’s employment data with BEA estimates for the 23 sectors in 2021. 
We also update the model’s employment data for 2021 as most wage and salary employment data are 
available from the Nevada DETR for 2022. We, therefore, update the model to account for the most recent 
information. 
11 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 177 of 214
 
 
 
 
 
 
=====PDFPAGE 178=====
LF-5 
Page 20 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
Table 4. Model Job Adjustments (in thousands) for 2021 with BEA Estimates 
INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION REMI FORECASTS BEA ESTIMATES 
Forestry, fishing, and hunting 0.47 0.46 
Mining 1.55 1.58 
Utilities 2.92 2.88 
Construction 82.52 86.26 
Manufacturing 29.28 29.76 
Wholesale trade 29.48 29.28 
Retail trade 133.70 136.24 
Transportation and warehousing 95.04 104.27 
Information 14.20 15.96 
Finance and insurance 70.31 80.77 
Real estate and rental and leasing 71.92 79.18 
Professional, scientific, and technical services 76.40 79.60 
Management of companies and enterprises 26.34 26.54 
Administrative, support, waste mgmt, and remediation services 98.78 103.33 
Educational services; private 14.51 16.47 
Health care and social assistance 111.85 118.63 
Amusement, gambling, recreation 36.44 41.40 
Accommodation and food services 230.64 229.37 
Other services (except public administration) 62.99 67.01 
State & local government 88.32 87.32 
Federal civilian 15.04 14.66 
Federal military 16.21 17.13 
Farm 0.44 0.41 
TOTAL 1309.35 1368.49 
Note: BEA estimates are also adjusted employment. 
The latest growth rates for the REMI model forecasts as well as recent DETR estimates appear in 
Table 5. The actual growth rates from DETR differ from the REMI forecasts, suggesting a need for 
adjustment. That is, the growth rate estimate by DETR of total employment was 8.7 percent in 2022, which 
is substantially higher than the REMI forecast of 4.3 percent. This mainly reflects stronger recovery and 
expansion in most sectors except for the monetary authorities and hospital sectors than the REMI model 
expected. The REMI model predicts that Clark County employment would fully recover in 2024 from the 
COVID-19 recession, while the most recent employment data show that employment recovered in 2022. 
The employment update proceeds as follows. First, we substitute BEA employment by 23 sectors into the 
REMI model and get the 70-sector estimates from the REMI model for 2021. Second, we compute the 
annual percentage change using DETR data and apply them to produce new estimates for 2022. This 
procedure implicitly assumes that the proportion of self-employed in each industry classification grows at 
the same rate as does the ratio between full- and part-time workers. 
12 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 178 of 214
 
 
=====PDFPAGE 179=====
LF-5 
Page 21 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
Table 5. Employment Growth Rates for Clark County Before DETR Adjustment for 2022 
INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION REMI FORECASTS* DETR ESTIMATES 
Construction 2.43% 9.40% 
Wholesale Trade 1.19% 8.33% 
Retail Trade -2.24% 3.22% 
Transit, Ground Passenger Transportation 8.02% 22.39% 
Monetary Authorities, Et Al. 2.78% 0.56% 
Ins Carriers, Related Activities 2.67% 5.21% 
Real Estate 4.02% 10.86% 
Professional, Technical Services 5.24% 6.67% 
Management of Companies 4.71% 16.27% 
Administrative, Support Services 5.59% 13.17% 
Ambulatory Health Care Services 3.64% 8.47% 
Hospitals 4.22% 1.72% 
Amusement, Gambling, And Recreation 9.90% 14.47% 
Accommodation 9.04% 15.92% 
Food Services, Drinking Places 4.04% 14.79% 
State & Local Government 2.97% 3.57% 
TOTAL 4.29% 8.72% 
*The 2022 REMI forecasts are updated with the GDP and BEA updates. 
Note: The total growth rates for DETR estimates are calculated after adjusting the employment forecasts with the DETR data for 
available sectors. Therefore, they do not represent actual DETR’s growth rate estimates. 
Table 6 reports the updated employment data by category for the model. The Clark County job 
growth numbers in 2022 show that local economic conditions fully recovered from the COVID-19 
recession. That is, BEA estimates that Clark County employment plummeted by 7.5 percent in 2020 but 
recovered strongly by 6.6 percent in 2021. The DETR estimates show that Clark County employment not 
only fully recovered from the COVID-19 pandemic but also expanded substantially in 2022 as the 
employment level surpassed the 2019 level by 7.2 percent. Most sectors experienced gains except for 
apparel manufacturing; leather and allied product manufacturing, and federal military sectors. The 
substantial growth partly reflects strong recovery in the leisure and hospitality employment, boosted by 
pent-up demand. In addition, key sectors such as construction, retail sales, real estate, professional, 
scientific, and technical services, administrative and support services, and ambulatory health care services 
experienced strong gains in 2022. As a result, Southern Nevada’s economy added roughly 119,000 jobs in 
2022. 
13 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 179 of 214
 
 
 
 
 
 
=====PDFPAGE 180=====
LF-5 
Page 22 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
Table 6. Model Job Adjustments (in thousands) for 2022 with DETR Estimates 
INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION BEA ESTIMATES 
DETR GROWTH 
RATE 
ADJUSTED 
JOB LEVELS 
2021 2022 2022 
Forestry et al. 0.43 6.70% 0.46 
Support act for agriculture and forestry 0.02 8.33% 0.03 
Oil, gas extraction 0.03 6.67% 0.03 
Mining (except oil, gas) 1.53 8.18% 1.65 
Support activities for mining 0.02 11.11% 0.02 
Utilities 2.88 3.82% 2.99 
Construction 86.26 9.40% 94.37 
Wood product manufacturing 0.52 11.03% 0.57 
Nonmetallic mineral prod manufacturing 2.68 9.84% 2.95 
Primary metal manufacturing 0.45 39.06% 0.62 
Fabricated metal prod manufacturing 2.98 12.66% 3.36 
Machinery manufacturing 0.69 14.14% 0.78 
Computer, electronic prod manufacturing 0.54 10.52% 0.60 
Electrical equip, appliance manufacturing 1.29 14.97% 1.48 
Motor vehicle manufacturing 0.21 12.38% 0.24 
Trans equip mfg exc motor vehicle 0.32 5.05% 0.33 
Furniture, related prod manufacturing 1.32 3.50% 1.36 
Miscellaneous manufacturing 6.26 10.79% 6.93 
Food manufacturing 3.67 0.68% 3.69 
Beverage, tobacco prod manufacturing 0.86 4.76% 0.90 
Textile mills; textile prod mills 0.56 13.68% 0.64 
Apparel manufacturing 0.87 -1.72% 0.86 
Paper manufacturing 0.66 6.65% 0.71 
Printing, related supp act 2.78 4.89% 2.92 
Petroleum, coal prod manufacturing 0.04 5.13% 0.04 
Chemical manufacturing 1.19 3.10% 1.23 
Plastics, rubber prod manufacturing 1.88 5.97% 1.99 
Wholesale trade 29.28 8.33% 31.71 
Retail trade 136.25 3.22% 140.64 
Air transportation 10.55 6.14% 11.19 
Rail transportation 0.27 4.06% 0.28 
Water transportation 0.08 7.23% 0.09 
Truck transportation 8.08 2.64% 8.29 
Couriers and messengers 12.15 2.95% 12.51 
Transit, ground pass transportation 33.51 22.39% 41.01 
Pipeline transportation 0.02 0.00% 0.02 
Scenic, sightseeing transportation; supp 8.43 5.44% 8.89 
Warehousing, storage 31.18 2.72% 32.03 
Publishing, except internet 3.36 5.28% 3.53 
Motion picture, sound rec 2.36 5.30% 2.48 
Data processing, hosting, and rel services 3.50 4.06% 3.64 
14 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 180 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 181=====
LF-5 
Page 23 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
Table 6. Model Job Adjustments (in thousands) for 2021 with DETR Estimates (continued) 
INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION BEA ESTIMATES 
DETR GROWTH 
RATE 
ADJUSTED 
JOB LEVELS 
2021 2022 2022 
Broadcasting, except int; 1.76 5.22% 1.86 
Telecommunications 4.99 0.00% 4.99 
Monetary authorities, et al. 22.34 0.56% 22.47 
Sec, comm contracts, inv 39.02 5.21% 41.06 
Ins carriers, rel act 19.40 5.21% 20.41 
Real estate 71.18 10.86% 78.91 
Rental, leasing services 8.00 3.95% 8.32 
Prof, tech services 79.60 6.67% 84.90 
Mgmt of companies, enterprises 26.54 16.27% 30.86 
Administrative, support services 100.14 13.17% 113.34 
Waste mgmt, remediation services 3.19 9.25% 3.48 
Educational services 16.47 6.67% 17.57 
Ambulatory health care services 59.49 8.47% 64.53 
Hospitals 26.70 1.72% 27.16 
Nursing, residential care facilities 11.20 3.11% 11.55 
Social assistance 21.24 3.97% 22.08 
Performing arts, spectator sports 24.25 11.23% 26.98 
Museums et al. 0.57 13.99% 0.65 
Amusement, gambling, recreation 16.58 14.47% 18.97 
Accommodation 131.08 15.92% 151.95 
Food services, drinking places 98.28 14.79% 112.82 
Repair, maintenance 14.55 4.18% 15.16 
Personal, laundry services 35.96 10.96% 39.90 
Membership assoc, organ 9.42 4.60% 9.86 
Private households 7.08 4.90% 7.43 
State & local government 87.32 3.57% 90.44 
Federal civilian 14.66 0.28% 14.70 
Federal military 17.13 -0.62% 17.02 
Farm 0.41 6.85% 0.44 
TOTAL 1,368.50 8.72% 1,487.87 
D. Hotel room adjustment 
We adjust future hotel employment based on the expected number of hotel rooms added in each of the 
next few years. The additional rooms and related employment represent either properties that are under 
construction with fixed opening dates, or properties that have development plans and a high probability 
of project completion during the specified year. In this way, we ensure that the model includes a good 
short-term forecast of new hotel investment and employment. 
15 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 181 of 214
 
=====PDFPAGE 182=====
LF-5 
Page 24 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
As of March 10, 2023, the LVCVA projects that hotel/motel construction will add an additional 
4,642 rooms to the local room inventory by the end of 2023 (Table 7). This includes the opening of Aloft 
Hotel; SpringHill Suites Las Vegas Airport; two Home2Suites by Hilton; Delta Hotels by Marriott; Durango, 
A Station Casinos Resort; and Fontainebleau Las Vegas. In 2024, the LVCVA projects that hotel/motel 
construction will add an additional 1,175 hotel/motel rooms to the room inventory. This includes the 
opening of Element Las Vegas Airport, AC Hotel by Marriott, Element Las Vegas at Grand Central Parkway 
and Symphony Park Avenue, Atwell Suites at the Pass, and Dream Las Vegas. Finally, the LVCVA expects 
to see an additional 5,315 rooms added to the room stock in 2025 by TBD-Tilman Fertitta, AC Hotel by 
Marriott, SpringHill Suites by Marriott, and All Net Resort and Arena. Overall, Las Vegas is expected to see 
an additional 11,132 hotel/motel rooms added to inventory by the end of 2025, which is a robust 7.3 
percent increase compared to the current available room inventory.
7 
Table 7. Expected Additional Employment due to New Rooms: Projections for 2023-2025 
Year 
LVCVA Room 
Addition 
Projections 
New Jobs due to 
New Rooms* 
REMI Jobs 
Increase** 
Cumulative Additional 
Jobs After Hotel Room 
Adjustment 
2023 4,642 5,570 3,544 2,026 
2024 1,175 1,410 575 2,861 
2025 5,315 6,378 427 8,812 
*Used a jobs-to-room multiplier of 1.2 (See Appendix A). For example, 5,570 is calculated by 4,642 times 1.2. 
** Projected accommodation job increases after calibrated national economic estimates and projections, Clark County 
population, and employment estimates in the REMI model. 
Note: CBER did not include Silverton’s 300 rooms in 2023, which will close for 5 months due to remodeling. We calibrated 
cumulative additional jobs after hotel room adjustment in the REMI model. 
Source: LVCVA; CBER 
The model adjustment for new hotel construction uses a jobs-to-room ratio of 1.2, which we 
calculated as follows.8 First, we expect new hotel rooms to create new jobs in hotel services. Using 
historical information from 2012-2021, we take the historical average ratio of annual accommodation 
employment from the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) divided by the total number of hotel rooms for both 
the Casino and non-Casino sectors. This produces job-to-room ratios of 1.5 and 0.7 for casino 
accommodation and non-casino accommodation, respectively. We, then adjust based on the shares of 
casino and non-casino rooms, 0.61 and 0.39 respectively, for new hotel construction.
9 From this 
calculation, we generate a weighted jobs-to-room multiplier of roughly 0.9 for hotel services. New hotel 
rooms will also generate secondary economic activity and, hence, additional jobs in other sectors. For 
7 As of March 2023, Las Vegas had 151,771 available rooms in inventory according to the LVCVA. 
8 The detailed computation of the jobs-to-room ratio appears in Appendix A. 
9 See Appendix B for the casino and non-casino calculation. 
cber.unlv.edu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 182 of 214
16 
=====PDFPAGE 183=====
LF-5 
Page 25 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
example, increased tourism activity from new hotel rooms will also increase the demand for food services 
and other tourism-related industries. We account for these new jobs as follows. We, first, use each 
industry’s location quotient10 to estimate the portion of the industry’s employment attributable to 
tourism activity. We, then, take the historical average ratio of the annual employment in each of these 
sectors, which is attributable to tourism activity divided by the total hotel rooms. The sum of the ratios 
for the food services and other tourism-related industries is approximately 0.3. This, together with the 
jobs-to-room multiplier of 0.9 for hotel services, produces the overall jobs-to-room ratio of 1.2. We, then, 
use the jobs-to-room multiplier as the multiplicand times the number of additional rooms, producing a 
cumulative increase of about 9,000 jobs by 2025 (Table 7). 
The method to calculate the estimated cumulative addition jobs after hotel room adjustment 
differs from the method we used for the last three years due to the COVID-19 recession. For the last three 
years, we added cumulated new jobs due to new rooms without considering the job additions projected 
by the REMI model. That is, we assumed that the job additions projected by the REMI model were due to 
recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic. The method used this time is the one we used before 2020. This 
method only includes the number of additional jobs over and above the rooms and jobs already accounted 
for in the model. This means that we assume that the existing number of rooms would be managed by 
the same number of hotel jobs for the projected period by the LVCVA. That is, an increase or decrease in 
REMI jobs must first be completely offset, and only then we do calibrate projected additional jobs into 
the REMI model. We return to this method as the current tourism employment has almost recovered from 
the COVID-19 pandemic. 
E. Transportation and infrastructure improvements 
Clark County continues to invest in transportation infrastructure such as roads, highways, and mass 
transit. The REMI model assumes that public-infrastructure investment will follow a path consistent with 
the model history. Thus, some local spending on public infrastructure, such as road building and additional 
services, is built into the model. One-time monies, however, tend to come from outside the region (e.g., 
federal transportation funding). We adjust the model to incorporate these large transportation projects 
in the forecast. 
10 The Location Quotient (LQ) compares Clark County’s employment in a given industry sector to that of the nation. An LQ greater 
than 1 indicates that the area has proportionately more workers than the nation employed in that specific industrial sector. This 
implies that the area is producing more than is consumed by its residents. Hence, the portion of the LQ that is above 1 represents, 
CBER assumes, the proportion of the industry’s employment attributable to tourism activity. 
17 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 183 of 214
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
=====PDFPAGE 184=====
LF-5 
Page 26 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
The estimated federal and private funding in transportation-infrastructure investment is about 
$11.5 billion between 2023 and 2050 (Figure 6). We annualize expected transportation-infrastructure 
expenditures from RTC of Southern Nevada and include them in the REMI model as new construction 
projects. In addition, we assume that federal funding in transportation-infrastructure investment after 
2050 will continue with a reasonable expectation that the federal funding will not fall to zero. Rather, we 
apply the flat amount of federal funding after 2050, where the REMI model adjusts this amount for 
inflation. 
Figure 6. The Estimated Federal and Private Funding Allocation for the Regional Transportation Plan 
for Southern Nevada 2023-2050 
Note: The amount shown above only includes federal and private funding and is displayed in millions. 
Source: The Regional Transportation Commission (RTC) of Southern Nevada 
F. Rebasing the population forecast II 
We rebase the population forecasts produced by calibrating all the adjustments mentioned above with 
the most recent short-term population growth rate forecasts from CBER’s 2023 Spring Economic Outlook. 
We estimate that Clark County will grow by 1.8, 1.4, and 1.3 percent, respectively, in 2023, 2024, and 
2025. The REMI model expects 3.3, 2.8, and 2.6 percent growth in population in 2023, 2024, and 2025, 
respectively, after the adjustments with national economic estimates and forecasts, Clark County 
population and employment estimates, and projected local investments. The REMI model provides long￾18 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 184 of 214
 
 
=====PDFPAGE 185=====
LF-5 
Page 27 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
term forecasts that exclude noise such as business-cycle, seasonal, and irregular events. The model’s high 
population growth projections are largely due to the current unprecedented economic conditions with 
the lingering effect of the COVID-19 recession. That is, the recent new jobs were mainly filled by returning 
workers who once dropped out from the labor force due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The high growth 
rates predicted by REMI are because the model expects economic migrants will be mainly employed for 
the expected new jobs in the short term. 
Therefore, CBER rebases the population forecasts after the adjustments with national economic 
estimates and forecasts, Clark County population and employment estimates, and projected local 
investments. We, first, rebase the forecasts from 2023 to 2025 by using the CBER’s short-term population 
growth rate forecasts. We update the level population forecasts from 2023 to 2025 by using the CBER’s 
short-term population growth rate forecasts and use the population growth-rate forecasts after the 
adjustments mentioned above for the subsequent adjustments. 
Figure 7. Clark County Population Growth Rate Forecasts Before and After Rebasing II: 2023-2025 
3.3% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.8% 
2.6% 
1.8% 
1.4% 1.3% 
2023 2024 2025 
Before rebasing II After rebasing II 
Note: The population growth rate forecasts before rebasing II are the REMI model forecasts after calibrating national economic 
estimates and forecasts, Clark County population and employment estimates, and projected local investments. The growth rate 
forecasts after rebasing II are CBER’s short-term population forecasts and we updated the population level forecasts by using 
these forecasts. 
IV. Analysis of the Economic and Demographic Forecast 
The forecast predicts modest rates of population growth for Southern Nevada in the near term with 1.8, 
1.4, and 1.3 percent, respectively, in 2023, 2024, and 2025. The growth rate forecasts, however, jumped 
to 2.3 percent in 2026 and then decline over the forecast period extending out to 2080. The rate of growth, 
which decidedly exceeded the national average over the past 50 years, is expected to remain above the 
19 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 185 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 186=====
LF-5 
Page 28 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
national growth rate, but the gap in growth rates between Clark County and the United States is predicted 
to narrow as Clark County is expected to age faster than the average U.S. population due to lower birth 
rates and increasing ratio of retired migration to net migration over time. The economic forecast calls for 
the continuation of the economic expansion over the forecast horizon except for 2030. The negative 
employment growth forecast in 2030 is largely due to a weak growth of 0.1 percent for the United States, 
which is forecasted to be caused by a decline in employment for Las Vegas’ key sectors such as 
construction, transportation and warehousing, and accommodation and food services. Clark County 
expects to experience a slight decline in employment in 2030 as the above-mentioned key sectors will 
account for more than 30 percent of Clark County employment in 2030, which is substantially higher than 
18 percent for the U.S. average. Tables 8, 9, and 10, respectively, report the final population, employment, 
and real GDP predictions for Clark County from the recalibrated model. 
A. Population 
In the short term, the current forecast predicts moderate rates of population growth in Southern Nevada. 
CBER predicts that the population in Clark County will grow at rates of 1.8 percent in 2023, 1.4 percent in 
2024, and 1.3 percent in 2024 (Table 8). The population growth rate will hit 2.3 percent in 2026 with strong 
economic activity, boosted by infrastructure investment, including the high-speed rail project and new 
hotel room additions. CBER expects the population growth rates in the medium term to be robust but will 
decline over time with decreases in natural growth (births minus deaths). We forecast the population 
growth rate for Clark County to be 0.5 percent in 2060 and 0.3 percent in 2080. 
CBER forecasts that Clark County will add roughly 42,000 new residents in 2023. After adding 
56,000 new residents in 2026, population gains decline to 20,000 in 2040 and 10,000 in 2080 with an aging 
population. The population forecast predicts that Clark County's population will increase to roughly 3.43 
million by 2080. 
Figure 8 shows population growth rate forecasts for Clark County and the United States. The gap 
in growth rates between Clark County and the United States is predicted to narrow as Clark County is 
expected to age faster than the average U.S. population due to lower birth rates and an increasing ratio 
of retired migration to net migration over time. That is, the model predicts that the share of the population 
ages 65 and above will account for 25.1 and 27.9 percent, respectively, in 2060 and 2080 for Clark County, 
which are higher than the predicted shares of 23.7 and 26.8 percent for the United States. 
20 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 186 of 214
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
=====PDFPAGE 187=====
LF-5 
Page 29 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
Table 8. Population History, REMI Forecasts, and Final Rebased Forecasts 
YEAR REMI FORECAST* REBASED FORECAST 
CHANGE IN POPULATION 
REBASED FORECAST 
GROWTH IN POPULATION 
REBASED FORECAST 
2022 2,384,000 2,331,934** -1,158 -0.05% 
2023 2,410,000 2,374,000 42,066 1.8% 
2024 2,435,000 2,407,000 33,000 1.4% 
2025 2,461,000 2,438,000 31,000 1.3% 
2026 2,488,000 2,494,000 56,000 2.3% 
2027 2,515,000 2,542,000 48,000 1.9% 
2028 2,540,000 2,583,000 41,000 1.6% 
2029 2,562,000 2,617,000 34,000 1.3% 
2030 2,582,000 2,645,000 28,000 1.1% 
2031 2,600,000 2,670,000 25,000 0.9% 
2032 2,617,000 2,691,000 21,000 0.8% 
2033 2,634,000 2,711,000 20,000 0.7% 
2034 2,650,000 2,731,000 20,000 0.7% 
2035 2,667,000 2,750,000 19,000 0.7% 
2036 2,685,000 2,770,000 20,000 0.7% 
2037 2,702,000 2,789,000 19,000 0.7% 
2038 2,720,000 2,809,000 20,000 0.7% 
2039 2,738,000 2,828,000 19,000 0.7% 
2040 2,756,000 2,848,000 20,000 0.7% 
2045 2,841,000 2,935,000 16,000 0.5% 
2050 2,919,000 3,014,000 15,000 0.5% 
2055 2,993,000 3,095,000 17,000 0.6% 
2060 3,061,000 3,176,000 16,000 0.5% 
2065 3,115,000 3,250,000 14,000 0.4% 
2070 3,160,000 3,315,000 13,000 0.4% 
2075 3,211,000 3,374,000 11,000 0.3% 
2080 3,266,000 3,427,000 10,000 0.3% 
* This forecast refers to the model prior to recalibration. 
** Southern Nevada consensus population estimate. 
Note: A table detailing the rebased population forecast appears in Appendix C–Table C2. 
21 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 187 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 188=====
LF-5 
Page 30 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
Figure 8. Population Growth Rate Forecasts: Clark County vs. United States 
2.5% 
2.0% 
1.5% 
1.0% 
0.5% 
0.0% 
2023 
2025 
2027 
2029 
2031 
2033 
2035 
2037 
2039 
2041 
2043 
2045 
2047 
2049 
2051 
2053 
2055 
2057 
2059 
2061 
2063 
2065 
2067 
2069 
2071 
2073 
2075 
2077 
2079 
Clark County US 
Note: Forecasts refer to the model after recalibration. 
B. Employment 
The forecast predicts a continued robust economic expansion for Southern Nevada in 2023. CBER 
forecasts that the Las Vegas economy will experience a gain of 45,000 jobs or 3.0 percent of total jobs in 
2023. See Table 9.11 CBER forecasts that employment will grow at a slower pace in 2024, only rising by 0.7 
percent, and will have a robust increase of 1.4 percent in 2025, largely boosted by about 5,300 new rooms 
from newly opened hotels in Clark County. The employment growth rate then will gradually decrease until 
2030 and experience a slight negative growth of 0.1 percent in 2030. The negative employment growth 
forecast in 2030 is largely due to a weak growth of 0.1 percent for the United States, which is forecasted 
to be caused by a decline in employment for Las Vegas’ key sectors (i.e., construction, transportation and 
warehousing, and accommodation and food services). Clark County expects to experience a slight decline 
in employment in 2030 as the above-mentioned key sectors will account for more than 30 percent of Clark 
County employment in 2030, which is substantially higher than 18 percent for the U.S. average. The 
employment growth rate, however, is expected to rebound and will stabilize at around 0.4 percent. 
11 Unadjusted employment forecasts are shown in Appendix C. 
22 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 188 of 214
 
 
 
 
 
=====PDFPAGE 189=====
LF-5 
Page 31 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
Table 9. Employment Forecasts 
YEAR EMPLOYMENT FORECAST 
CHANGE IN EMPLOYMENT 
FORECAST 
GROWTH IN 
EMPLOYMENT FORECAST 
EMPLOYMENT￾POPULATION FORECAST 
2022 1,488,000 119,000 8.7% 0.64 
2023 1,533,000 45,000 3.0% 0.65 
2024 1,544,000 11,000 0.7% 0.64 
2025 1,565,000 21,000 1.4% 0.64 
2026 1,577,000 12,000 0.8% 0.63 
2027 1,586,000 9,000 0.6% 0.62 
2028 1,593,000 7,000 0.4% 0.62 
2029 1,594,000 1,000 0.1% 0.61 
2030 1,593,000 -1,000 -0.1% 0.60 
2031 1,597,000 4,000 0.3% 0.60 
2032 1,601,000 4,000 0.3% 0.59 
2033 1,606,000 5,000 0.3% 0.59 
2034 1,612,000 6,000 0.4% 0.59 
2035 1,620,000 8,000 0.5% 0.59 
2036 1,629,000 9,000 0.6% 0.59 
2037 1,638,000 9,000 0.6% 0.59 
2038 1,648,000 10,000 0.6% 0.59 
2039 1,657,000 9,000 0.5% 0.59 
2040 1,666,000 9,000 0.5% 0.58 
2045 1,708,000 9,000 0.5% 0.58 
2050 1,758,000 10,000 0.6% 0.58 
2055 1,805,000 9,000 0.5% 0.58 
2060 1,848,000 8,000 0.4% 0.58 
2065 1,882,000 5,000 0.3% 0.58 
2070 1,916,000 7,000 0.4% 0.58 
2075 1,951,000 7,000 0.4% 0.58 
2080 1,988,000 8,000 0.4% 0.58 
C. Gross domestic product 
Real gross domestic product (GDP) is defined as the (constant) dollar value of all final goods and services 
sold in a regional economy over a given time period. As such, it reflects the output of a local economy and 
avoids double-counting raw materials and intermediate goods in the final output. The forecast for growth 
23 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 189 of 214
 
=====PDFPAGE 190=====
LF-5 
Page 32 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
in Clark County’s real GDP, shown in Table 10, basically mirrors the growth pattern of local employment, 
although the real GDP growth rate forecasts show stronger projections due to increasing labor 
productivity as well as an aging population. The real GDP growth rate forecast expects a sturdy gain of 3.4 
in 2023 as the local economy expects to continue its robust expansion. After hitting the lowest growth 
rate of 1.5 percent in 2030, the local economy expects to have a stabilized growth rate with a matured 
economy of between 1.6 and 1.8 percent from 2039 to 2080. 
Table 10. Gross Domestic Product Forecasts (Billions of Fixed 2023 Dollar) 
YEAR GDP FORECAST CHANGE IN GDP FORECAST GROWTH IN GDP FORECAST GDP PER CAPITA FORECAST ($) 
2022 164.08 8.81 5.7% 70,361 
2023 169.66 5.58 3.4% 71,467 
2024 171.91 2.25 1.3% 71,416 
2025 176.85 4.94 2.9% 72,527 
2026 181.02 4.16 2.4% 72,582 
2027 184.85 3.83 2.1% 72,716 
2028 188.41 3.56 1.9% 72,936 
2029 191.41 3.00 1.6% 73,135 
2030 194.31 2.89 1.5% 73,450 
2031 197.70 3.39 1.7% 74,055 
2032 201.21 3.51 1.8% 74,761 
2033 204.83 3.62 1.8% 75,547 
2034 208.67 3.84 1.9% 76,416 
2035 212.70 4.03 1.9% 77,338 
2036 216.86 4.16 2.0% 78,291 
2037 221.11 4.25 2.0% 79,268 
2038 225.26 4.15 1.9% 80,189 
2039 229.42 4.16 1.8% 81,112 
2040 233.63 4.21 1.8% 82,048 
2045 255.26 4.42 1.8% 86,965 
2050 278.78 4.88 1.8% 92,481 
2055 304.66 5.38 1.8% 98,449 
2060 332.68 5.76 1.8% 104,743 
2065 361.87 5.84 1.6% 111,347 
2070 393.07 5.91 1.7% 118,580 
2075 427.49 5.81 1.7% 126,694 
24 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 190 of 214
 
 
=====PDFPAGE 191=====
LF-5 
Page 33 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
2080 464.99 6.34 1.7% 135,668 
Note: The forecasts refer to the model after recalibration 
V. Comparing the Current Forecast with Forecasts of Previous Years 
This section compares this year’s final population growth-rate forecast with the final population growth￾rate forecasts from previous years. This exercise assesses the consistency of the forecast methodology 
and examines the variability in the population growth-rate forecasts over the last six years. 
Figure 9. Clark County Historical Population Growth Rate Forecasts: 2023-2035 
3.0% 
2.5% 
2.0% 
1.5% 
1.0% 
0.5% 
0.0% 
2023 Forecast 2022 Forecast 
2021 Forecast 2020 Forecast 
2019 Forecast 2018 Forecast 
2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 2031 2032 2033 2034 2035 
 
Figure 9 shows the population growth-rate forecasts generated from the 2018 to 2023 population 
forecast analyses as well as the standard deviation of the population-growth-rate forecasts in the last 23 
years of forecasts (2001-2023).12,13 The 2023 forecast mirrors the 2019 forecast from 2023 and 2025 but 
jumps in 2026 to the highest rate among the forecasts. The 2023 forecast, however, declines at a fast pace 
until 2031 and then at a decreasing pace after 2031. Overall, the 2023 forecast falls between the 2018 
forecast and the 2022 forecast except for 2026. Each forecast follows a downward trend keeping the same 
order based on magnitude except for the 2023 forecast. The range of the forecasts is from 1.1 to 2.3 
12 Figure 9 shows the forecasts of the population growth rate from 2023 through 2035 for six different forecast years, 2018 to 
2023. The standard deviation calculation uses forecasts from 23 forecast years, 2001 to 2023. So, the standard deviation in 2023 
measures the variability across the 23 different forecasts for the population growth rate in 2023. 
13 The standard deviation measures the variability among data points. For data that follow a normal distribution, around 95 
percent of data points will fall within approximately two standard deviations of the mean. 
25 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 191 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 192=====
LF-5 
Page 34 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
percent in 2023 but narrows to 0.3 to 1.2 percent in 2035. The population growth rate forecasts exhibit a 
similar level of variability from 2022 to 2035. Overall, the standard deviation of the population growth￾rate forecast remains around 0.3 percent from 2023 to 2035. By 2030, the average of the forecasted 
growth rates converges to about 1.2 percent. Our forecasts tell a consistent story across different forecast 
years. This consistency improves as one moves to longer-term forecast values. Since the objective of this 
exercise is to provide primarily long-run planning guidance, the long-term growth predictions obtained 
during the last 23 years seem to meet that objective. Further analysis and findings appear in Appendix C 
from the previous report, the 2022-2060 CBER Population Forecasts.
14 
VI. Risks to the Forecast 
Our Southern Nevada population forecast rests on economic and demographic models embedded in the 
structural model for Clark County as produced by REMI. This structure provides long-term forecasts that 
exclude the noise that one finds in time-series data–that is, business-cycle, seasonal, and irregular events. 
In addition, the uncertainty of the forecasts rises further into the future that the forecasts extend. For 
example, forecasts of population growth for the next two years see a much smaller range over which the 
forecast may actually vary than the range for our forecasts 40 years into the future.15 
The main risks to the population forecasts arise from short-term fluctuations in both U.S. and 
Southern Nevada economic conditions. The U.S. economy has slowed recently with higher interest rates 
as the Fed has been raising the federal funds rate to combat high inflation. The labor market, however, 
remains strong while the most recent uptick in initial claims and reduction in job openings may signal a 
loosening of the labor market. Consumer sentiment also declined recently with increasing concerns of a 
recession. Moreover, the IMF projects that the World economy will experience the lowest growth since 
1990 at around 3 percent over the next five years. The local economy has shown a robust expansion 
benefiting from the tourism sector’s strong performance. The majority of Clark County visitors, however, 
14 https://cber.unlv.edu/wp-content/uploads/2022/07/2022-CBER-Population-Forecasts.pdf. 15 The discussions in this and the immediate prior paragraphs may seem inconsistent. The discussion, however, focuses on two 
different issues. In the current paragraph, the uncertainty focuses on the range around an existing forecast within which we can 
expect the actual value to lie with some probability. For example, a typical range covers 95 percent of actual outcomes. In a 
statistical sense, the discussion involves confidence bands. The further into the future that the researcher tries to forecast, the 
larger the range of the confidence bands needs to be to capture 95 percent of potential outcomes. In the prior paragraph, the 
standard deviation came from a series of different vintage REMI forecasts. The economic and demographic structure of the REMI 
model leads to convergence over time. That is, the economic migrants respond to economic incentives. Then, the movement of 
economic migrants will tend to reduce and eliminate the economic incentive for more migrants to move in the longer run. That 
is, excessive growth relative to national growth disappears as the incentives for economic migration diminish. 
26 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 192 of 214
 
 
 
 
 
 
=====PDFPAGE 193=====
LF-5 
Page 35 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
come from the United States; therefore, the current ongoing uncertainty could be a headwind in the 
future for the Southern Nevada economy. 
This forecast contains uncertainties related to assumptions incorporated in the modeling as well 
as policy uncertainties not reflected in the forecast. For example, the growing water scarcity across the 
Western United States due to persistent drought conditions since the early 2000s has caused water 
managers to plan for how water will be used in the future. Policies used to optimize water use may 
indirectly affect local conditions that directly affect the population forecast. Additional uncertainty 
reflects what some call potential shortages of “developable” land parcels. The extent and impact of such 
shortages is unknown but may cause limitations on living space and higher prices for the existing 
population and potential in-migrants, which could be a headwind for future population growth. 
The future diversification of the local economy may provide a positive upside risk in terms of long￾term population growth. In a Brookings Institution report,16 Las Vegas ranked 50th out of 56 very large 
metro areas based on improvement in prosperity (changes in productivity, average wealth and income, 
and standard of living). The report emphasizes that high-tech-, research-, and capital-intensive-based 
economies grow faster than regions that rely on the hospitality and retail sectors for their economic 
growth. Washoe County, however, partly succeeded in diversifying its economy after the Great Recession 
and posted fewer vulnerabilities due to the COVID-19 recession compared to Clark County. The Las Vegas￾Henderson-Paradise metro area experienced -2.1, 14.6, and 2.4 percent growth in productivity, average 
annual wage, and standard of living from 2011 to 2021, while Reno gained by 10.8, 24.9, and 23.4 percent, 
respectively, during the same period. 
In summary, although the CBER population forecast is sound, risks exist that could lead to either 
over- or under-forecasted population growth. CBER believes that the downside risk may exceed the upside 
risk for the Southern Nevada economy with the ongoing economic uncertainty, which means that the risk 
of overestimating population growth may exceed the risk of its underestimation in the near term. We 
reiterate that our long-term forecasts exclude business-cycle, seasonal, and irregular events, which 
respond more to these short-run risks. Our long-term forecasts are designed to aid in the process of long￾term planning. 
16 Source: The Brookings Institution (2023), Metro Monitor. https://www.brookings.edu/interactives/metro-monitor-2023/. 
27 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 193 of 214
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
=====PDFPAGE 194=====
LF-5 
Page 36 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
VII. Conclusion 
The latest REMI model projects long-term population growth patterns that are consistent with previous 
population forecasts except for 2023, 2024, and 2025. The short-term population growth forecasts from 
2023 to 2025 are from CBER’s 2023 Spring Economic Outlook. Overall, the population forecast is lower 
than last year’s forecast over the forecast horizon, which extends through 2060. This year, however, we 
provide the forecasts throughout 2080 as the model offers extended years in the forecast horizon. The 
lower forecasts reflect not only the out-of-box forecast differences between this year’s and last year’s 
REMI models but also the new data incorporated into the model and major adjustments with current 
employment and population data. As mentioned in Section II, the out-of-the-box forecasted population 
for this year’s model is lower than that of the previous year’s model from 2028 to 2060, and the gap is 
about 41,000 in the year 2060 We note that despite short-term economic uncertainties and model 
difficulties, the long-term population forecast, which is our primary focus in this forecasting exercise, 
remains consistent with past forecasts. By 2040, we predict that Clark County’s population will reach 
about 2.85 million. In 2080, Clark County is expected to hit slightly below 3.43 million residents. 
28 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 194 of 214
 
 
 
 
 
=====PDFPAGE 195=====
LF-5 
Page 37 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
Appendices: 
Appendix A: Computation of the Weighted Jobs-to-Room Ratio 
The adjustment for new hotel construction uses a ratio of jobs to rooms. Two issues arise in the 
computation of the jobs-to-room ratio. First, we expect new hotel rooms to create new jobs in hotel 
services. The hotel service jobs, however, will be calculated for casinos and non-casinos separately as they 
have different job-to-room ratios. Second, new hotel rooms themselves will also generate economic 
activity and, hence, additional jobs in other sectors. Increased tourism activity from new hotel rooms will 
increase the demand for food services and other tourism-related industries. Therefore, we need an 
approach that accounts for these two issues. We suggest using a weighted ratio with the share of new 
hotel room for casinos and non-casinos. We propose the following formula: 
Note: NGCB stands for the Nevada Gaming Control Board. 
29 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 195 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 196=====
LF-5 
Page 38 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
Table A1. Computation of Jobs-to-Room Ratios by Sequence (1) – (6) 
(1) Employment (thousands) 
Industrial Classification 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 
Casino accommodation 152.4 152.4 157.6 156.0 153.2 151.9 151.2 149.1 97.2 107.5 
Non-casino accommodation 12.2 12.6 13.0 12.9 13.2 13.6 13.8 14.3 9.0 9.5 
Clothing and clothing accessories 18.3 18.5 19.0 19.2 18.5 19.3 19.0 18.5 13.2 15.0 
Transit, ground pass transportation 13.3 13.4 14.0 14.2 13.4 12.4 11.0 9.9 6.0 6.6 
Arts, entertainment, and recreation 17.5 17.8 18.7 19.3 20.5 21.3 22.6 23.5 17.2 21.2 
Food service and drinking places 79.4 84.5 89.3 94.1 98.8 101.9 103.5 106.6 83.2 99.8 
Note: Non-casino accommodation is equal to accommodation minus casino accommodation 
Source: Quarterly Census of Employment and Wages, U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics 
(2) Proportion of employment due to tourism* (=(Location quotient**-1)/Location quotient) 
Industrial Classification 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 
Accommodation 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 
Non-casino accommodation 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 
Clothing and clothing accessories 0.50 0.50 0.51 0.52 0.49 0.49 0.49 0.49 0.50 0.51 
Transit, ground pass transportation 0.79 0.78 0.78 0.77 0.75 0.73 0.69 0.64 0.60 0.60 
Arts, entertainment, and recreation 0.26 0.25 0.24 0.23 0.24 0.24 0.25 0.25 0.32 0.34 
Food service and drinking places 0.18 0.19 0.19 0.20 0.20 0.19 0.18 0.18 0.22 0.25 
* Maximum value = 1. Minimum value = 0. 
** The Location Quotient (LQ) compares Clark County’s employment in a given industry sector to that of the nation. An LQ greater 
than 1 indicates that the area has proportionately more workers than the nation employed in that specific industry sector. This 
implies that the area is producing more than is consumed by its residents. 
Note: We subtract 1/LQ from LQ, which represents the share of the employment, regardless of tourism, for the selected 
industries. For the accommodation sector, the proportion is 1 as we estimate the employment due to a hotel room. 
(3) Employment due to tourism (thousands) = (1) x (2) 
Industrial Classification 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 
Accommodation 152.4 152.4 157.6 156.0 153.2 151.9 151.2 149.1 97.2 107.5 
Non-casino accommodation 12.2 12.6 13.0 12.9 13.2 13.6 13.8 14.3 9.0 9.5 
Total for tourism-related industries* 38.6 40.6 42.6 43.8 43.7 43.5 41.0 40.4 33.7 43.6 
Clothing and clothing accessories 9.2 9.3 9.7 9.9 9.1 9.5 9.2 9.0 6.7 7.7 
Transit, ground pass transportation 10.5 10.5 10.9 11.0 10.1 9.0 7.6 6.4 3.6 3.9 
Arts, entertainment, and recreation 4.6 4.4 4.5 4.5 5.0 5.1 5.6 5.8 5.5 7.3 
Food service and drinking places 14.3 16.4 17.4 18.4 19.5 19.8 18.5 19.2 17.9 24.7 
* The sum of employment due to tourism for clothing and clothing accessories, transit, ground pass transportation, arts, 
entertainment, and recreation, and food service and drinking places employment due to tourism. The numbers may not sum to 
the total because of rounding. 
(4) Hotel room count (thousands) 
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 
LVCVA room inventory 150.5 150.1 150.1 149.6 148.7 147.3 147.4 148.9 137.4 148.3 
NGCB casino room inventory 123.5 123.4 123.3 123.5 122.4 121.8 121.4 119.7 94.5 115.8 
Non-casino room inventory 27.0 26.7 26.8 26.2 26.3 25.5 26.0 29.1 43.0 32.6 
Note: Room inventory is the average from January to December. Non-casino room inventory is equal to LVCVA room inventory 
minus NGCB casino room inventory. 
Source: LVCVA; NGCB; CBER 
30 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 196 of 214
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
=====PDFPAGE 197=====
LF-5 
Page 39 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
(5) Employment due to a hotel room = (3)/(4) 
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Average* 
Jobs-to-room ratio for 
Casino 1.23 1.23 1.28 1.26 1.25 1.25 1.25 1.25 1.03 0.93 1.20 
Jobs-to-room ratio for 
non-casino 0.45 0.47 0.48 0.49 0.50 0.53 0.53 0.49 0.21 0.29 0.45 
Jobs-to-room ratio for 
tourism-related industries 0.26 0.27 0.28 0.29 0.29 0.30 0.28 0.27 0.25 0.29 0.28 
*Averaged jobs-to-room ratio from 2012 to 2021. 
Note: Check the formulas for more detailed information. 
(6) Weighted job-to-room ratio 
Casino Non-casino 
Share of new rooms (see appendix B) 0.611 0.389 
Job-to-room ratio for accommodation 1.20 0.45 
Jobs-to-room ratio for tourism-related industries 0.28 0.28 
Therefore, the weighted job-to-room ratio = 0.611*1.20 +0.389*0.45 + 0.28 = 0.73+0.18+0.28 = 1.19 ~1.2. 
31 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 197 of 214
 
 
 
=====PDFPAGE 198=====
LF-5 
Page 40 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
Appendix B: Hotel/Motel Room Construction 
Table B1. Expected Hotel/Motel Room Construction from 2023 to 2025 
Complete Year Hotel Name Zip Code Hotel Rooms Casino Y or N 
2023 Aloft Hotel 89044 136 N 
2023 SpringHill Suites Las Vegas Airport 89118 127 N 
2023 Home2Suites by Hilton 89113 120 N 
2023 Home2Suites by Hilton 89115 120 N 
2023 Delta Hotels by Marriott 89103 284 N 
2023 Durango, A Station Casinos Resort 89148 211 Y 
2023 Fontainebleau Las Vegas 89109 3,644 Y 
2024 Element Las Vegas Airport 89119 119 N 
2024 AC Hotel by Marriott 89106 322 N 
2024 Element Las Vegas 89106 119 N 
2024 Atwell Suites at the Pass 89015 90 N 
2024 Dream Las Vegas 89119 525 Y 
2025 TBD-Tilman Fertitta 89109 2,420 Y 
2025 AC Hotel by Marriott 89118 225 N 
2025 SpringHill Suites by Marriott 89119 170 N 
2025 All Net Resort & Arena 89109 2,500 N 
Note: The total number of additional rooms from 2023 to 2025 equals 11,132. 
Source: Las Vegas Convention and Visitor Authority; CBER 
Table B2. Expected Casino or Non-casino Room Construction from 2023 to 2025 
Complete Year Casino Non-casino 
2023 3,855 787 
2024 525 650 
2025 2,420 2,895 
Total 6,800 4,332 
Share of rooms 0.611 0.389 
Source: Las Vegas Convention and Visitor Authority; CBER 
32 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 198 of 214
 
 
 
=====PDFPAGE 199=====
LF-5 
Page 41 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
Figure B1. Expected Hotel/Motel Room Construction Map 
Note: The green icons in the figure represent new casino hotels, while the red icons represent non-casino hotels. 
Source: Las Vegas Convention and Visitor Authority; CBER; Google Map 
33 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 199 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 200=====
LF-5 
Page 42 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
Appendix C: Detailed Report Tables 
Table C1. Out-of-the-Box Clark County Population and Population Growth Forecasts from REMI Models 
LHY2020 and LHY2019 
YEAR 
LHY2020 POPULATION 
(THOUSANDS) 
LHY2019 POPULATION 
(THOUSANDS) 
LHY2020 POPULATION 
GROWTH 
LHY2019 POPULATION 
GROWTH 
2023 2,410 2,344 1.1% 1.3% 
2024 2,435 2,388 1.0% 1.9% 
2025 2,461 2,431 1.1% 1.8% 
2026 2,488 2,472 1.1% 1.7% 
2027 2,515 2,512 1.1% 1.6% 
2028 2,540 2,549 1.0% 1.5% 
2029 2,562 2,583 0.9% 1.3% 
2030 2,582 2,614 0.8% 1.2% 
2031 2,600 2,644 0.7% 1.1% 
2032 2,617 2,671 0.7% 1.0% 
2033 2,634 2,698 0.6% 1.0% 
2034 2,650 2,724 0.6% 1.0% 
2035 2,667 2,748 0.6% 0.9% 
2036 2,685 2,772 0.7% 0.9% 
2037 2,702 2,795 0.6% 0.8% 
2038 2,720 2,817 0.7% 0.8% 
2039 2,738 2,838 0.7% 0.7% 
2040 2,756 2,859 0.7% 0.7% 
2045 2,841 2,948 0.6% 0.4% 
2050 2,919 3,017 0.5% 0.3% 
2055 2,993 3,067 0.5% 0.2% 
2060 3,061 3,103 0.4% 0.2% 
2065 3,115 0.3% 
2070 3,160 0.3% 
2075 3,211 0.3% 
2080 3,266 0.3% 
Note: Out-of-the-box refers to the model prior to recalibration. These numbers are not the final forecast. 
34 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 200 of 214
 
 
 
=====PDFPAGE 201=====
LF-5 
Page 43 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
Table C2. Detailed Final Clark County Population Forecast: 2015 – 2080 
YEAR POPULATION FORECAST CHANGE IN POPULATION FORECAST GROWTH IN POPULATION (PERCENT) 
2,147,641* 45,403 2.2% 
2016 2,205,207* 57,566 2.7% 
2017 2,248,390* 43,183 2.0% 
2018 2,284,616* 36,226 1.6% 
2019 2,325,798* 41,182 1.8% 
2,376,683* 50,885 2.2% 
2021 2,333,092* -43,591 -1.8% 
2022 2,331,934* -1,158 -0.05% 
2023 2,374,000** 42,066 1.8% 
2024 2,407,000** 33,000 1.4% 
2,438,000** 31,000 1.3% 
2026 2,494,000 56,000 2.3% 
2027 2,542,000 48,000 1.9% 
2028 2,583,000 41,000 1.6% 
2029 2,617,000 34,000 1.3% 
2,645,000 28,000 1.1% 
2031 2,670,000 25,000 0.9% 
2032 2,691,000 21,000 0.8% 
2033 2,711,000 20,000 0.7% 
2034 2,731,000 20,000 0.7% 
2,750,000 19,000 0.7% 
2036 2,770,000 20,000 0.7% 
2037 2,789,000 19,000 0.7% 
2038 2,809,000 20,000 0.7% 
2039 2,828,000 19,000 0.7% 
2,848,000 20,000 0.7% 
2041 2,866,000 18,000 0.6% 
2042 2,884,000 18,000 0.6% 
2043 2,902,000 18,000 0.6% 
2044 2,919,000 17,000 0.6% 
2,935,000 16,000 0.5% 
2046 2,951,000 16,000 0.5% 
2047 2,967,000 16,000 0.5% 
2048 2,983,000 16,000 0.5% 
2049 2,999,000 16,000 0.5% 
3,014,000 15,000 0.5% 
2051 3,030,000 16,000 0.5% 
2052 3,046,000 16,000 0.5% 
2053 3,062,000 16,000 0.5% 
2054 3,078,000 16,000 0.5% 
3,095,000 17,000 0.6% 
2056 3,111,000 16,000 0.5% 
2057 3,127,000 16,000 0.5% 
2058 3,144,000 17,000 0.5% 
2059 3,160,000 16,000 0.5% 
3,176,000 16,000 0.5% 
2061 3,192,000 16,000 0.5% 
35 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 201 of 214
 
2020
2030
2040
2050
2060
2015
2025
2035
2045
2055
=====PDFPAGE 202=====
LF-5 
Page 44 of 54
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
2062 3,207,000 15,000 0.5% 
2063 3,222,000 15,000 0.5% 
2064 3,236,000 14,000 0.4% 
2065 3,250,000 14,000 0.4% 
2066 3,263,000 13,000 0.4% 
2067 3,276,000 13,000 0.4% 
2068 3,289,000 13,000 0.4% 
2069 3,302,000 13,000 0.4% 
2070 3,315,000 13,000 0.4% 
2071 3,327,000 12,000 0.4% 
2072 3,339,000 12,000 0.4% 
2073 3,351,000 12,000 0.4% 
2074 3,363,000 12,000 0.4% 
2075 3,374,000 11,000 0.3% 
2076 3,385,000 11,000 0.3% 
2077 3,396,000 11,000 0.3% 
2078 3,407,000 11,000 0.3% 
2079 3,417,000 10,000 0.3% 
2080 3,427,000 10,000 0.3% 
* SNRPC consensus population estimate. 
**CBER 2023 Economic Outlook forecast, April 2023 
Note: The average annual forecasted growth rate is 0.7 percent. 
36 
cber.unlv.edu 
Page 202 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 203=====
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
Table C3. Economic Forecast 
Variable Unit 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 2035 
Total Employment Thousands (Jobs) 1533.35 1543.76 1564.79 1577.14 1586.36 1593.35 1594.41 1593.48 1619.70 
Private Non-Farm Employment Thousands (Jobs) 1407.63 1417.00 1436.55 1447.62 1455.71 1461.69 1461.98 1460.40 1484.06 
Residence-Adjusted 
Employment Thousands 1510.64 1521.08 1542.03 1554.58 1564.14 1571.44 1572.87 1572.34 1599.68 
Population Thousands 2373.92 2407.15 2438.44 2493.96 2542.05 2583.24 2617.26 2645.42 2750.19 
Labor Force Thousands 1183.35 1199.17 1213.58 1240.59 1263.59 1283.28 1299.42 1311.50 1357.48 
Gross Domestic Product Billions of Fixed (2023) $ 169.66 171.91 176.85 181.02 184.85 188.41 191.41 194.31 212.70 
Output Billions of Fixed (2023) $ 279.18 282.29 289.59 295.56 300.80 305.48 309.09 312.36 338.66 
Value Added Billions of Fixed (2023) $ 169.66 171.91 176.85 181.02 184.85 188.41 191.41 194.31 212.70 
Personal Income Billions of Fixed (2023) $ 143.90 144.20 149.04 153.74 158.56 164.05 167.13 171.89 193.01 
Disposable Personal Income Billions of Fixed (2023) $ 126.77 127.11 131.34 134.23 137.62 142.81 145.53 149.95 168.57 
PCE-Price Index 2012=100 (Nation) 125.98 128.84 131.70 134.66 137.58 140.49 143.38 146.26 161.15 
Page 203 of 214
Variable Unit 2040 2045 2050 2055 2060 2065 2070 2075 2080 
Total Employment Thousands (Jobs) 1665.50 1708.08 1757.73 1805.05 1848.23 1882.39 1915.66 1951.25 1988.02 
Private Non-Farm Employment Thousands (Jobs) 1527.25 1567.20 1613.93 1658.72 1699.85 1732.71 1764.97 1799.57 1835.39 
Residence-Adjusted 
Employment Thousands 1645.61 1688.20 1737.77 1785.08 1828.35 1862.76 1896.19 1931.88 1968.76 
Population Thousands 2847.50 2935.24 3014.41 3094.60 3176.18 3249.94 3314.79 3374.19 3427.43 
Labor Force Thousands 1402.98 1445.19 1484.93 1524.59 1566.74 1606.52 1640.00 1672.19 1702.09 
Gross Domestic Product Billions of Fixed (2023) $ 233.63 255.26 278.78 304.66 332.68 361.87 393.07 427.49 464.99 
Output Billions of Fixed (2023) $ 373.88 411.33 452.00 496.69 545.02 595.34 648.98 707.97 772.04 
Value Added Billions of Fixed (2023) $ 233.63 255.26 278.78 304.66 332.68 361.87 393.07 427.49 464.99 
Personal Income Billions of Fixed (2023) $ 216.85 242.03 269.61 300.07 333.17 366.95 403.59 445.11 490.89 
Disposable Personal Income Billions of Fixed (2023) $ 189.39 211.39 235.50 262.13 291.07 320.57 352.57 388.90 428.98 
PCE-Price Index 2012=100 (Nation) 177.86 196.36 216.80 239.40 264.32 291.74 322.01 355.60 392.83 
LF-5 
Page 45 of 54
37 
cber.unlv.edu 
=====PDFPAGE 204=====
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
Table C4. Employment (in thousands) 
Page 204 of 214
Variable 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 2035 
Private Non-Farm 1407.63 1417.00 1436.55 1447.62 1455.71 1461.69 1461.98 1460.40 1484.06 
Forestry, Fishing, Other 0.54 0.56 0.59 0.60 0.61 0.61 0.61 0.60 0.66 
Mining 1.78 1.79 1.80 1.83 1.84 1.84 1.84 1.83 1.82 
Utilities 3.05 3.02 3.02 3.01 2.99 2.97 2.93 2.90 2.79 
Construction 101.84 103.53 105.50 107.90 107.96 107.83 106.75 105.37 102.35 
Manufacturing 32.13 31.60 31.25 31.42 31.69 31.96 32.32 32.87 35.34 
Wholesale Trade 32.02 31.79 31.83 31.87 31.94 32.01 32.05 32.16 32.49 
Retail Trade 138.60 136.13 135.07 133.92 133.18 132.79 132.40 132.47 133.79 
Transportation and Warehousing 117.76 118.89 120.20 121.29 122.26 122.92 123.07 122.90 125.04 
Information 16.80 16.71 16.69 16.64 16.61 16.57 16.50 16.42 16.33 
Finance and Insurance 86.02 86.04 86.46 86.58 86.68 86.74 86.57 86.34 87.26 
Real Estate and Rental and Leasing 90.27 91.07 92.43 93.35 94.18 94.83 95.08 95.23 97.96 
Professional and Technical Services 87.96 88.76 89.95 90.84 91.75 92.48 92.97 93.43 96.90 
Management of Companies and Enterprises 31.15 30.89 30.62 30.42 30.30 30.16 30.02 29.90 29.95 
Admin and Waste Services 120.72 121.89 123.81 125.28 126.72 127.97 128.84 129.61 136.17 
Educational Services 18.41 18.76 19.16 19.45 19.70 19.88 19.94 19.95 20.94 
Health Care and Social Assistance 130.05 131.84 134.55 136.53 138.22 139.73 140.59 141.33 147.14 
Arts, Entertainment, and Recreation 49.07 50.61 52.15 53.40 54.52 55.39 55.88 56.05 57.06 
Accommodation and Food Services 274.01 276.62 283.43 284.35 285.07 285.24 284.21 282.24 281.19 
Other Services (except public administration) 75.47 76.50 78.05 78.96 79.51 79.76 79.41 78.80 78.89 
Government 125.28 126.34 127.81 129.10 130.24 131.25 132.01 132.66 135.20 
State and local 93.40 94.75 96.39 97.85 99.06 100.01 100.64 101.03 102.78 
Federal civilian 14.80 14.55 14.37 14.21 14.12 14.13 14.24 14.46 15.28 
Federal military 17.08 17.04 17.05 17.05 17.06 17.10 17.14 17.17 17.13 
Farm 0.43 0.43 0.42 0.42 0.42 0.42 0.42 0.42 0.43 
LF-5 
Page 46 of 54
38 
cber.unlv.edu 
=====PDFPAGE 205=====
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
Table C4. Employment (in thousands) (continued) 
Page 205 of 214
Variable 2040 2045 2050 2055 2060 2065 2070 2075 2080 
Private Non-Farm 1527.25 1567.20 1613.93 1658.72 1699.85 1732.71 1764.97 1799.57 1835.39 
Forestry, Fishing, Other 0.72 0.75 0.79 0.81 0.83 0.84 0.83 0.83 0.81 
Mining 1.84 1.87 1.91 1.94 1.98 2.00 2.02 2.05 2.07 
Utilities 2.70 2.59 2.48 2.37 2.26 2.13 1.99 1.87 1.75 
Construction 104.53 107.03 109.86 112.97 115.91 118.00 120.58 123.87 127.35 
Manufacturing 38.07 40.41 43.03 45.99 49.14 52.20 55.28 58.50 61.83 
Wholesale Trade 33.18 33.78 34.43 34.94 35.27 35.29 35.22 35.13 34.99 
Retail Trade 137.94 141.76 146.17 150.26 153.75 156.04 158.07 160.22 162.30 
Transportation and Warehousing 129.62 133.94 138.78 143.33 147.55 151.17 154.62 158.14 161.68 
Information 16.49 16.69 17.00 17.30 17.58 17.81 18.01 18.23 18.45 
Finance and Insurance 88.16 88.49 88.97 89.10 88.86 88.11 87.29 86.53 85.82 
Real Estate and Rental and Leasing 101.25 103.98 106.90 109.50 111.60 112.82 113.77 114.78 115.80 
Professional and Technical Services 100.91 104.87 109.40 113.90 118.30 122.33 126.34 130.60 135.07 
Management of Companies and Enterprises 30.35 30.68 31.07 31.36 31.53 31.60 31.58 31.51 31.41 
Admin and Waste Services 144.29 152.24 160.94 169.51 177.81 185.40 192.92 200.68 208.62 
Educational Services 22.34 23.64 25.06 26.55 27.99 29.33 30.71 32.10 33.50 
Health Care and Social Assistance 153.16 158.25 163.75 168.52 172.65 175.49 178.13 180.85 183.60 
Arts, Entertainment, and Recreation 59.32 61.59 64.21 66.78 69.27 71.57 73.86 76.21 78.62 
Accommodation and Food Services 282.82 284.69 288.46 292.24 295.85 299.09 302.44 306.18 310.34 
Other Services (except public administration) 79.58 79.96 80.73 81.35 81.73 81.49 81.30 81.29 81.38 
Government 137.82 140.45 143.38 145.91 147.96 149.27 150.30 151.30 152.26 
State and local 105.07 107.05 109.14 110.85 112.07 112.53 112.63 112.64 112.54 
Federal civilian 15.76 16.52 17.42 18.36 19.33 20.35 21.45 22.61 23.85 
Federal military 17.00 16.87 16.81 16.71 16.56 16.39 16.23 16.05 15.88 
Farm 0.44 0.43 0.43 0.42 0.41 0.41 0.39 0.38 0.37 
LF-5 
Page 47 of 54
39 
cber.unlv.edu 
=====PDFPAGE 206=====
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
Table C5. Gross Domestic Product (billions of fixed 2023$)* 
Variable 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 2035 
Personal Consumption Expenditures 123.09 123.87 127.44 130.84 134.11 137.16 139.80 142.46 159.11 
Motor vehicles and parts 4.20 4.11 4.16 4.21 4.30 4.41 4.53 4.69 5.73 
Furnishings and durable household equipment 3.55 3.66 3.89 4.12 4.38 4.67 4.98 5.34 6.57 
Recreational goods and other durable goods 7.51 7.47 7.66 7.87 8.10 8.37 8.67 9.02 11.28 
Food and beverages 9.64 9.56 9.68 9.83 10.00 10.17 10.34 10.52 11.77 
Clothing and footwear 4.33 4.25 4.30 4.41 4.56 4.76 4.99 5.29 5.94 
Motor vehicle fuels, lubricants, and fluids 2.01 1.93 1.87 1.84 1.82 1.76 1.71 1.67 1.51 
Fuel oil and other fuels 0.07 0.07 0.06 0.06 0.06 0.06 0.05 0.05 0.05 
Other nondurable goods 11.17 11.28 11.66 12.04 12.43 12.81 13.17 13.54 15.90 
Housing 20.55 20.56 20.96 21.33 21.68 22.00 22.23 22.44 24.20 
Household utilities 2.59 2.56 2.59 2.61 2.64 2.65 2.66 2.66 2.79 
Transportation services 3.86 3.91 4.03 4.14 4.24 4.32 4.38 4.42 4.76 
Health care 17.79 18.08 18.76 19.39 19.99 20.56 21.05 21.53 24.49 
Recreation and other services 35.83 36.42 37.83 38.97 39.91 40.63 41.05 41.28 44.12 
Gross Private Domestic Fixed Investment 30.68 32.14 33.64 34.96 36.06 36.87 37.39 37.82 40.97 
Residential 5.78 6.02 6.28 6.62 6.78 6.76 6.56 6.29 5.52 
Nonresidential structures 4.84 5.10 5.42 5.61 5.67 5.73 5.73 5.70 5.87 
Nonresidential equipment 11.54 12.12 12.70 13.16 13.67 14.10 14.48 14.86 16.86 
Nonresidential intellectual property products 8.52 8.90 9.25 9.57 9.95 10.29 10.62 10.97 12.72 
Change in Private Inventories 0.09 0.06 0.03 0.03 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04 
Government Consumption Expenditures 26.42 26.56 26.89 27.30 27.49 27.77 28.00 28.20 29.23 
Federal military 8.86 8.82 8.84 8.86 8.88 8.91 8.94 8.97 9.09 
Federal civilian 3.44 3.43 3.44 3.45 3.45 3.47 3.48 3.49 3.54 
State and local government 14.11 14.31 14.62 15.00 15.16 15.39 15.58 15.75 16.60 
Total Exports 87.60 88.46 90.46 91.73 93.20 94.40 95.54 96.52 104.06 
Total Imports 98.22 99.18 101.61 103.84 106.05 107.83 109.35 110.74 120.71 
*Note: The sum of the components may not add up to the total GDP due to rounding. 
Page 206 of 214
LF-5 
Page 48 of 54
40 
cber.unlv.edu 
=====PDFPAGE 207=====
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
Table C5. Gross Domestic Product (billions of fixed 2023$) (continued)* 
Variable 2040 2045 2050 2055 2060 2065 2070 2075 2080 
Personal Consumption Expenditures 178.03 197.75 219.50 243.62 269.72 296.41 325.18 357.78 393.80 
Motor vehicles and parts 7.02 8.48 10.21 12.24 14.58 17.12 20.03 23.50 27.50 
Furnishings and durable household equipment 8.07 9.77 11.71 13.94 16.41 19.00 21.83 25.02 28.52 
Recreational goods and other durable goods 14.05 17.19 20.87 25.12 29.92 35.10 40.92 47.64 55.19 
Food and beverages 13.11 14.45 15.87 17.40 18.99 20.52 22.05 23.69 25.39 
Clothing and footwear 6.65 7.40 8.22 9.12 10.07 11.02 11.98 13.02 14.14 
Motor vehicle fuels, lubricants, and fluids 1.40 1.33 1.28 1.22 1.17 1.10 1.04 0.98 0.93 
Fuel oil and other fuels 0.05 0.05 0.05 0.05 0.05 0.05 0.05 0.05 0.05 
Other nondurable goods 18.68 21.75 25.29 29.37 34.03 39.15 44.97 51.76 59.56 
Housing 25.98 27.69 29.41 31.17 32.88 34.40 35.80 37.23 38.68 
Household utilities 2.92 3.02 3.12 3.22 3.30 3.36 3.40 3.44 3.48 
Transportation services 5.16 5.54 5.95 6.39 6.85 7.31 7.81 8.42 9.09 
Health care 27.74 31.01 34.49 38.14 42.00 45.87 49.87 54.16 58.70 
Recreation and other services 47.20 50.07 53.04 56.24 59.48 62.41 65.44 68.89 72.57 
Gross Private Domestic Fixed Investment 45.69 50.66 56.09 62.18 68.86 75.90 83.39 91.78 101.00 
Residential 5.61 5.53 5.45 5.47 5.52 5.41 5.53 5.92 6.34 
Nonresidential structures 6.42 7.12 7.89 8.77 9.73 10.78 11.83 13.01 14.33 
Nonresidential equipment 19.14 21.58 24.26 27.19 30.41 33.87 37.45 41.30 45.56 
Nonresidential intellectual property products 14.53 16.44 18.50 20.74 23.20 25.84 28.58 31.54 34.77 
Change in Private Inventories 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.03 
Government Consumption Expenditures 30.26 31.23 32.17 33.14 34.13 35.09 36.02 36.93 37.91 
Federal military 9.20 9.29 9.40 9.50 9.62 9.75 9.87 9.98 10.10 
Federal civilian 3.58 3.62 3.66 3.70 3.75 3.79 3.84 3.88 3.93 
State and local government 17.48 18.32 19.11 19.93 20.76 21.55 22.31 23.07 23.88 
Total Exports 113.79 124.08 135.32 147.46 160.77 175.27 190.53 206.79 224.32 
Total Imports 134.17 148.50 164.35 181.77 200.82 220.82 242.08 265.82 292.06 
*Note: The sum of the components may not add up to the total GDP due to rounding. 
Page 207 of 214
LF-5 
Page 49 of 54
41 
cber.unlv.edu 
=====PDFPAGE 208=====
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
Table C6. Income (billions of fixed 2023$) 
Variable 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 2035 
Total earnings by place of work 103.92 104.07 107.00 109.49 112.14 114.54 116.42 117.98 127.44 
Total wage and salary disbursements 76.14 76.69 79.28 81.37 83.19 84.84 86.10 87.10 93.55 
Supplements to wages and salaries 16.74 16.41 16.51 16.74 17.37 17.95 18.46 18.90 20.93 
Employer contributions for employee pension and insurance funds 11.13 10.92 10.98 11.14 11.55 11.94 12.28 12.57 13.92 
Employer contributions for government social insurance 5.61 5.50 5.53 5.61 5.82 6.01 6.18 6.33 7.01 
Proprietors' income with inventory valuation and capital consumption
adjustments 11.05 10.97 11.21 11.37 11.58 11.75 11.86 11.99 12.97 
Less: Contributions for government social insurance 11.94 12.05 12.43 12.79 13.03 13.25 13.43 13.59 14.63 
Employee and self-employed contributions for government social 
insurance 6.34 6.56 6.91 7.18 7.21 7.24 7.25 7.26 7.62 
Employer contributions for government social insurance 5.61 5.50 5.53 5.61 5.82 6.01 6.18 6.33 7.01 
Plus: Adjustment for residence -0.50 -0.51 -0.56 -0.58 -0.59 -0.59 -0.58 -0.55 -0.50 
Gross in 2.00 1.98 2.00 2.03 2.07 2.11 2.15 2.19 2.39 
Gross out 2.50 2.50 2.56 2.60 2.66 2.70 2.73 2.74 2.88 
Equals: Net earnings by place of residence 91.48 91.50 94.01 96.12 98.52 100.71 102.41 103.85 112.31 
Plus: Rental, personal interest, and personal dividend income 29.52 30.10 31.22 32.75 34.16 35.68 37.17 38.72 45.71 
Plus: Personal current transfer receipts 22.90 22.60 23.81 24.87 25.87 27.67 27.54 29.33 34.99 
Equals: Personal income 143.90 144.20 149.04 153.74 158.56 164.05 167.13 171.89 193.01 
Less: Personal current taxes 17.13 17.09 17.70 19.51 20.94 21.25 21.60 21.94 24.45 
Equals: Disposable personal income 126.77 127.11 131.34 134.23 137.62 142.81 145.53 149.95 168.57 
42 
cber.unlv.edu 
LF-5 
Page 50 of 54
Page 208 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 209=====
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
Table C6. Income (billions of fixed 2023$) (continued) 
Variable 2040 2045 2050 2055 2060 2065 2070 2075 2080 
Total earnings by place of work 139.02 150.87 163.61 177.37 191.79 206.08 220.56 235.50 250.18 
Total wage and salary disbursements 101.38 109.29 117.76 126.89 136.46 145.94 155.51 165.36 175.00 
Supplements to wages and salaries 23.30 25.76 28.38 31.21 34.19 37.15 40.12 43.14 46.07 
Employer contributions for employee pension and insurance funds 15.50 17.13 18.88 20.76 22.74 24.71 26.69 28.69 30.64 
Employer contributions for government social insurance 7.80 8.63 9.50 10.45 11.45 12.44 13.43 14.45 15.43 
Proprietors' income with inventory valuation and capital consumption
adjustments 14.34 15.82 17.47 19.26 21.14 22.99 24.93 27.00 29.11 
Less: Contributions for government social insurance 15.87 17.12 18.45 19.87 21.34 22.79 24.21 25.66 27.05 
Employee and self-employed contributions for government social 
insurance 8.07 8.50 8.95 9.42 9.90 10.34 10.78 11.21 11.62 
Employer contributions for government social insurance 7.80 8.63 9.50 10.45 11.45 12.44 13.43 14.45 15.43 
Plus: Adjustment for residence -0.54 -0.61 -0.68 -0.75 -0.80 -0.82 -0.83 -0.87 -0.91 
Gross in 2.57 2.77 2.98 3.20 3.45 3.73 4.00 4.28 4.56 
Gross out 3.12 3.37 3.65 3.95 4.25 4.54 4.83 5.15 5.46 
Equals: Net earnings by place of residence 122.61 133.14 144.48 156.75 169.64 182.49 195.52 208.97 222.22 
Plus: Rental, personal interest, and personal dividend income 52.63 59.51 66.48 73.50 80.33 85.97 91.00 95.70 99.35 
Plus: Personal current transfer receipts 41.62 49.38 58.65 69.82 83.20 98.50 117.07 140.44 169.32 
Equals: Personal income 216.85 242.03 269.61 300.07 333.17 366.95 403.59 445.11 490.89 
Less: Personal current taxes 27.46 30.63 34.11 37.94 42.10 46.38 51.01 56.21 61.91 
Equals: Disposable personal income 189.39 211.39 235.50 262.13 291.07 320.57 352.57 388.90 428.98 
43 
cber.unlv.edu 
LF-5 
Page 51 of 54
Page 209 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 210=====
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
Table C7. Population and Labor Force (in thousands) 
Variable 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 2035 
Total population 2373.92 2407.15 2438.44 2493.96 2542.05 2583.24 2617.26 2645.42 2750.19 
By race and ethnicity
White 942.00 945.74 948.49 960.33 968.87 974.38 976.82 976.77 959.89 
Black 284.09 287.60 290.86 296.99 302.20 306.61 310.17 313.05 323.32 
Other 368.34 375.19 381.75 392.13 401.38 409.55 416.61 422.78 448.23 
Hispanic 779.48 798.62 817.34 844.51 869.60 892.71 913.66 932.83 1018.75 
By age
Ages 0-14 431.69 432.64 433.29 437.72 441.92 444.42 446.00 445.71 447.09 
Ages 15-24 289.08 295.66 302.69 314.60 322.71 327.31 329.95 331.80 326.37 
Ages 25-64 1251.49 1260.36 1266.47 1284.90 1301.44 1317.88 1330.75 1341.11 1385.55 
Ages 65 & older 401.65 418.48 435.99 456.74 475.99 493.64 510.57 526.81 591.19 
Labor force 1183.35 1199.17 1213.58 1240.59 1263.59 1283.28 1299.42 1311.50 1357.48 
Labor force participation rate 0.63 0.62 0.62 0.62 0.62 0.61 0.61 0.61 0.60 
Participation rates by gender
Male (16 & older) 0.68 0.68 0.68 0.67 0.67 0.67 0.67 0.67 0.66 
Female (16 & older) 0.57 0.57 0.57 0.57 0.56 0.56 0.56 0.56 0.55 
Page 210 of 214
Variable 2040 2045 2050 2055 2060 2065 2070 2075 2080 
Total population 2847.50 2935.24 3014.41 3094.60 3176.18 3249.94 3314.79 3374.19 3427.43 
By race and ethnicity
White 936.78 909.59 881.44 856.63 835.63 815.05 794.02 773.19 752.76 
Black 332.84 341.14 348.04 354.53 360.97 366.05 369.20 370.57 370.18 
Other 473.69 499.12 524.20 550.05 576.34 601.51 625.59 649.40 672.81 
Hispanic 1104.19 1185.39 1260.73 1333.38 1403.25 1467.34 1525.99 1581.03 1631.68 
By age
Ages 0-14 454.20 464.15 473.04 478.70 481.77 482.95 484.14 487.92 493.37 
Ages 15-24 323.92 326.06 329.49 336.74 344.83 348.04 348.48 349.02 350.18 
Ages 25-64 1431.30 1473.16 1500.76 1520.56 1537.33 1573.82 1599.11 1608.24 1616.58 
Ages 65 & older 638.09 671.87 711.12 758.60 812.25 845.13 883.06 929.02 967.31 
Labor force 1402.98 1445.19 1484.93 1524.59 1566.74 1606.52 1640.00 1672.19 1702.09 
Labor force participation rate 0.60 0.60 0.60 0.59 0.59 0.59 0.59 0.59 0.59 
Participation rates by gender
Male (16 & older) 0.66 0.65 0.65 0.65 0.65 0.64 0.64 0.64 0.64 
Female (16 & older) 0.54 0.54 0.54 0.54 0.54 0.54 0.54 0.54 0.55 
LF-5 
Page 52 of 54
44 
cber.unlv.edu 
=====PDFPAGE 211=====
 
 
 
 
2023 Clark County Population Forecasts 
Table C8. Demographics (in thousands) 
Variable 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 2035 
Starting population 2331.95 2373.92 2407.15 2438.44 2493.96 2542.05 2583.24 2617.26 2730.68 
Births 27.22 27.39 27.50 27.78 28.16 28.45 28.66 28.80 29.19 
Deaths 20.94 21.53 22.12 22.84 23.66 24.45 25.22 25.97 29.55 
Natural growth 6.28 5.85 5.38 4.94 4.50 4.00 3.44 2.83 -0.35 
Population before migrants 2338.23 2379.77 2412.53 2443.38 2498.46 2546.05 2586.68 2620.09 2730.33 
Total migrants 35.69 27.38 25.91 50.58 43.60 37.19 30.58 25.33 19.86 
Economic migrants 19.14 10.84 9.18 33.76 26.65 20.11 13.43 8.12 2.65 
International migrants 10.58 10.55 10.52 10.49 10.48 10.47 10.46 10.45 10.39 
Retired migrants 5.91 6.05 6.20 6.34 6.45 6.55 6.65 6.72 6.87 
Special pops migrants 0.07 -0.05 0.01 -0.01 0.01 0.05 0.04 0.04 -0.05 
Total population 2373.92 2407.15 2438.44 2493.96 2542.05 2583.24 2617.26 2645.42 2750.19 
Page 211 of 214
Variable 2040 2045 2050 2055 2060 2065 2070 2075 2080 
Starting population 2828.44 2918.73 2998.71 3078.27 3160.13 3236.24 3302.05 3362.85 3417.08 
Births 29.97 30.39 30.49 30.65 30.91 31.27 31.48 31.77 32.10 
Deaths 32.68 35.02 36.55 37.55 38.49 39.65 41.19 42.84 44.11 
Natural growth -2.71 -4.63 -6.06 -6.90 -7.58 -8.37 -9.71 -11.07 -12.01 
Population before migrants 2825.73 2914.10 2992.65 3071.37 3152.54 3227.87 3292.34 3351.79 3405.07 
Total migrants 21.78 21.14 21.76 23.23 23.64 22.08 22.46 22.41 22.36 
Economic migrants 4.60 3.94 4.32 5.43 5.39 3.38 3.33 2.82 2.42 
International migrants 10.30 10.21 10.10 10.00 9.94 10.07 10.20 10.34 10.46 
Retired migrants 6.90 7.01 7.36 7.84 8.36 8.67 8.97 9.29 9.53 
Special pops migrants -0.03 -0.02 -0.02 -0.03 -0.04 -0.04 -0.04 -0.04 -0.04 
Total population 2847.50 2935.24 3014.41 3094.60 3176.18 3249.94 3314.79 3374.19 3427.43 
LF-5 
Page 53 of 54
45 
cber.unlv.edu 
=====PDFPAGE 212=====
LF-5 
Page 54 of 54
Page 212 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 213=====
LF-6 
Page 213 of 214
=====PDFPAGE 214=====
CONFIDENTIAL 
FILED UNDER SEAL 
Page 214 of 214