=====PDFPAGE 29=====
 
 24 
Nuclear Fuel Matters 
Southern Nuclear, as operating agent, acquires and manages nuclear fuel and fuel cycle services 
for all units at Plant Vogtle and Plant Hatch.  Nuclear fuel contracts vary in length from short-term contracts 
(typically less than three years) to long-term contracts (typically longer than five years).  Additional nuclear 
fuel contracts will be required for the long-term supply of nuclear fuel to Plant Vogtle and Plant Hatch. 
Pursuant to the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, nuclear utilities have been required to make 
payments into the federal Nuclear Waste Fund established by Section 302(c) of the Nuclear Waste Policy 
Act of 1982.  Under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, DOE was to provide for a disposal facility or 
repository and accept high-level nuclear waste from nuclear utilities no later than January 31, 1998.  Under 
the contracts GPC has with DOE, permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel from Plant Vogtle Unit Nos. 1 
and 2 and Plant Hatch Unit Nos. 1 and 2 was to begin in 1998.  This did not occur, and GPC pursued legal 
remedies against the U.S. Government for its partial breach of contract.   
On June 7, 2024, and August 15, 2024, the U.S. Court of Federal Claims entered final judgments 
on damages in the third and fourth round of lawsuits, respectively, against the U.S. Government.  MEAG 
Power’s share of the awards was $54.4 million, of which $37.2 million was refunded to the Participants 
and $17.2 million was deposited into construction bank accounts held by the applicable bond resolution 
trustee.  MEAG Power previously received its share of awards by such court for spent nuclear fuel damages 
for the years 1998 through 2010.  For a discussion of such lawsuits, see Note 2(G) to MEAG Power’s 2024 
Financial Statements attached hereto as APPENDIX A.  MEAG Power anticipates that Southern Nuclear 
will pursue legal remedies against the U.S. Government for its partial breach of contract for years 2020 and 
thereafter with respect to the permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel from Plant Vogtle Unit Nos. 1 and 2 
and Plant Hatch Unit Nos. 1 and 2.  
Southern Nuclear reports that Plant Vogtle Unit Nos. 1 and 2 and Plant Hatch Unit Nos. 1 and 2 
have completed on-site capability for dry storage of spent fuel.  Construction of an on-site dry storage 
facility at Plant Vogtle and Plant Hatch was completed in 2013 and 2000, respectively.  According to 
Southern Nuclear, the Plant Hatch and Plant Vogtle on-site dry storage facilities can be expanded to 
accommodate spent fuel through the expected life of the plants.  With the commercial operation of Vogtle 
Units 3 and 4, long-term storage of spent fuel will need to be addressed for these units. Construction of 
additional on-site storage facilities is anticipated to address this need. 
Coal Purchases 
MEAG Power purchases coal for its interests in Plant Scherer Unit Nos. 1 and 2 through a 
combination of short-term contracts (typically less than three years) and spot market purchases.  As 
provided for in the Project Agreements, MEAG Power manages its own coal stockpile inventory including 
selection of fuel sources, contract arrangements, and coal inventory levels.  GPC, as the agent for MEAG 
Power as well as the other co-owners, has contracted Southern Company Fuel Services (“SCFS”) to act as 
coal procurement agent and SCFS is responsible for issuance of requests for proposals for coal supply, 
contract negotiations, and scheduling coal delivery.  Coal demand has varied greatly over the past few years 
due to volatility in natural gas and power prices, amid a railroad crisis mainly caused by crew shortages.  
Coal conservation in 2022 turned into a minimum burn requirement in 2023; however, in 2025 there are no 
expected limitations on the dispatch of coal-fired facilities, and there were no limitations in 2024.  Coal 
inventory management may put pressure on the cost of energy supply. 
Plant Scherer Unit Nos. 1 and 2 currently burn coal from sub-bituminous mines in the PRB region.  
As of March 31, 2025, MEAG Power’s share of the coal stockpile at Plant Scherer contained a 34-day 
supply for Plant Scherer Unit Nos. 1 and 2 based on nominal full-load capacity.  
=====PDFPAGE 30=====
 
 25 
All coal for Plant Scherer is delivered in private rail cars, and each of the co-owners has provided 
cars that comprise a pool of cars used for these private rail car deliveries.  To date, MEAG Power has 
contributed a total of 643 cars to the combined pool of cars for Plant Scherer Unit Nos. 1 and 2.  GPC has 
leased additional train sets under short-term (i.e., three to five years) leases.  MEAG Power participates in 
these short-term leases as needed to balance rail transportation capacity and forecasted delivered coal tons. 
Nuclear Fuel Purchases 
MEAG Power has an established nuclear fuel funding program that provides for the financing of 
nuclear fuel purchases.  For further information relating to the procurement of nuclear fuel, see Note 7 to 
MEAG Power’s 2024 Financial Statements attached hereto as APPENDIX A.  MEAG Power understands 
that Southern Nuclear has sufficient inventory on hand and access to fuel procurement to operate the nuclear 
units for the foreseeable future. 
Pseudo Scheduling and Services Agreement 
The Pseudo Scheduling and Services Agreement (the “PSSA”) between MEAG Power and GPC 
became effective August 1, 1997.  The PSSA is a power supply arrangement between MEAG Power and 
GPC under which the following occurs: 
(a) MEAG Power “pseudo” schedules how and when generation from its ownership interests 
in Plant Scherer Unit Nos. 1 and 2 is committed and dispatched.  That is, GPC will deliver 
energy based upon such schedules as if it were generated at such units, although the 
commitment of these units may actually be different from the “pseudo” schedule. 
(b) MEAG Power “pseudo” schedules generation from the Participants’ entitlements to output 
from the SEPA facilities. 
(c) MEAG Power utilizes the actual output from its ownership interests in Plants Hatch and 
Vogtle and the Wansley CC Unit (hereinafter defined). 
(d) MEAG Power schedules its own off-system transactions. 
(e) MEAG Power controls the other non-nuclear resources in the Balancing Authority Area of 
The Southern Company (“Southern Company”), the parent company of GPC, to which 
MEAG Power has ownership rights, all to meet MEAG Power’s requirements. 
With respect to item (a), to the extent MEAG Power pseudo schedules output in excess of MEAG 
Power’s share of the actual output of a unit, MEAG Power purchases such excess energy from GPC at the 
energy cost of such unit.  To the extent MEAG Power pseudo schedules output that is less than MEAG 
Power’s share of the actual output of the unit, MEAG Power sells such energy to GPC at the energy cost of 
such unit. 
Under the PSSA, GPC provides the required ancillary services for the scheduling and dispatch of 
MEAG Power’s resources, provides back-up power supply to MEAG Power through an energy imbalance 
service, and to the extent not provided by MEAG Power, provides all ancillary services required for MEAG 
Power to operate its resources and to effectuate off-system sales and purchases.  GPC has no further 
responsibility to provide partial requirements service to MEAG Power.  MEAG Power is responsible for, 
among other matters, procuring its future requirements for all bulk power supply, obtaining replacement 
power when its generating resources are unavailable, planning, operating and maintaining its system in 
accordance with prudent utility practice, and paying the costs of all ancillary services needed to ensure the 
delivery of MEAG Power’s generation. 
=====PDFPAGE 31=====
 
 26 
The PSSA requires MEAG Power to purchase or provide certain ancillary services that are referred 
to as “Control Area Services.”  The term “MEAG Territorial Control Area Services” means those Control 
Area Services that are needed (a) to effectuate the delivery of power to MEAG Power’s Territorial Load, 
as defined in the PSSA; and (b) to maintain the integrity of the ITS and the Southern Company Balancing 
Authority Area during such transactions.  The MEAG Territorial Control Area Services to be provided or 
offered under the PSSA include: (a) scheduling, system control and dispatch service; (b) reactive supply 
and voltage control from generation sources service; (c) regulation and frequency response service; (d) 
operating reserve - spinning reserve service; and (e) operating reserve - supplemental reserve service. 
Supplemental Reserves may be purchased directly from GPC or self-supplied through a 
combination of generating resources and qualifying interruptible loads.   
MEAG Power’s territorial load served by SEPA resources is excluded from the cost calculation for 
these services (while SEPA is part of the Southern Company dispatch) because SEPA purchases these 
Control Area Services from Southern Company under a separate contractual arrangement. 
The term of the PSSA is from year to year, with either party having the right to terminate the PSSA 
upon six months’ notice to the other party.  GPC has agreed to cooperate with MEAG Power to develop 
agreements to permit MEAG Power, upon the termination of the PSSA, to form or become part of another 
balancing authority area for dispatching and scheduling its generating units to match its loads should MEAG 
Power elect to do so. 
The PSSA provides MEAG Power with flexibility to manage its generation resources in the current 
market.  It allows for utilization of MEAG Power’s generating resources to match closely its system 
requirements.  The PSSA also facilitates MEAG Power’s ability to make firm off-system sales and 
purchases.  During 2024, energy sales to GPC under the provisions of the PSSA totaled 842.7 gigawatt-
hours (“GWh”) with revenues of $34.9 million, while energy purchases from GPC amounted to 354.4 GWh 
with a cost of $12.8 million. 
Under the PSSA, MEAG Power contracts directly for the sale and purchase of capacity and energy 
with utilities both inside and outside of the Georgia territory.  Prior to June 2024, all short-term trading 
activities in the wholesale market have been coordinated through TEA.  Since then, MEAG Power has 
transitioned to utilizing ACES for all short-term trading activities.  In 2024, total energy sales related to 
Project One, the Existing General Resolution Projects and the CC Project to parties other than native load 
and GPC totaled 175.2 GWh with gross revenues of $5.7 million.  During 2024, energy purchases arranged 
by or from ACES and TEA, respectively, in the aggregate totaled 1,440.3 GWh with a cost of $43.6 million. 
For the 2024 Power Supply Year, MEAG Power’s interchanges with others, excluding sellback to 
GPC, included (a) purchases from TEA, ACES, GPC under the PSSA, and others totaling 1,857.5 GWh 
and $59.2 million and (b) sales to TEA, GPC under the PSSA, and others totaling 1,109.5 GWh and $44.4 
million.  For information relating to ACES and TEA, including MEAG Power’s withdrawal as a member 
therein, see “Power Marketing Arrangements” below. 
The Combined Cycle Project 
General.  In July 2003, 32 Participants (hereinafter referred to as the “Initial CC Participants ”) 
agreed to execute a take-or-pay, “hell or high water” Amended and Restated Combined Cycle Power Sales 
Contract (each, an “Initial CC Contract”) for the purpose of amending and restating their respective power 
sales contracts relating to a simple cycle combustion turbine project (the “CT Project”) in connection with 
the development and construction of a combined cycle generating facility with a nominal summer rating 
capacity of 503 MW (the “Wansley CC Unit”).  Three additional Participants (i.e., Lawrenceville, Grantville 
and Palmetto) became CC Participants in 2007 and early 2008, one additional Participant ( i.e., Albany) 
=====PDFPAGE 32=====
 
 27 
became a CC Participant effective as of January 1, 2011 and one additional Participant ( i.e., Brinson) 
became a CC Participant effective as of January 1, 2012 (such additional Participants are collectively 
referred to herein as the “Additional CC Participants”), increasing the total number of participants in the 
CC Project to 37.  The Additional CC Participants became participants in the CC Project through the 
execution of additional take-or-pay, “hell or high water” CC Contracts (the “Additional CC Contracts ”) 
and assignment agreements with certain of the Initial CC Participants with respect to portions of such Initial 
CC Participants’ interests in the output of the CC Project (see “Bulk Power Supply Operations – General” 
above).  The Initial CC Participants, together with the Additional CC Participants, are collectively referred 
to herein as the “CC Participants,” and the Initial CC Contracts, together with the Additional CC Contracts, 
are collectively referred to herein as the “CC Contracts.”  The payment obligations of each CC Participant 
under its respective CC Contract are general obligations to the payment of which its full faith and credit are 
pledged.  MEAG Power’s remedies under each such CC Contract include specific performance to compel 
the CC Participant to assess and collect an annual ad valorem tax sufficient to meet its obligations 
thereunder.  The Additional CC Contracts were entered into after the entry of the August 20, 2003, 
validation order referred to above and have not been so validated.  See “CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS 
AND FINANCING PROGRAMS – Security for MEAG Power’s CC Bonds – The CC Contracts” herein.  
For descriptions of the CC Contracts and the CC Bond Resolution, see “SUMMARY OF COMBINED 
CYCLE POWER SALES CONTRACTS” in APPENDIX H hereto and “SUMMARY OF COMBINED 
CYCLE PROJECT BOND RESOLUTION” in APPENDIX I hereto. 
See “CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS AND FINANCING PROGRAMS – Financing Programs – 
Outstanding Indebtedness of MEAG Power – CC Project” for a description of outstanding indebtedness 
relating to the CC Project, and “CC PROJECT PARTICIPANTS ANNUAL GROSS DEBT SERVICE 
RESPONSIBILITIES” in APPENDIX P hereto for the current debt service responsibilities of the CC 
Participants with respect to the 2020A CC Bonds. 
Description of the CC Project .  The CC Project consists of the ownership of a General Electric 
natural gas-fired and steam driven combined cycle power plant (S207 FA) that has a nominal summer 
capacity of 503 MW.   
The CC Project is located at the existing Plant Wansley site, which is located in a rural area in 
Heard County, Georgia, approximately 40 miles southwest of Atlanta.  While the Plant Wansley site is co-
owned by MEAG Power, GPC, OPC and Dalton, the real property on which the CC Project is located is 
owned solely by MEAG Power. 
The CC Project takes advantage of a number of jointly owned facilities including the 
interconnection facilities at the Yellowdirt substation.  In 2007, MEAG Power and GTC completed a joint 
ownership and operating agreement under which MEAG Power and GTC each have an initial 50 percent 
interest in this substation.  Such interests are subject to adjustment if the substation is expanded in the future 
and both parties choose not to participate equally in such expansion. 
Through participation in the Momentum Expansion Phase II, previously known as the “Cornerstone 
Expansion,” of the Transco natural gas pipeline system (“Transco”), MEAG Power has secured firm natural 
gas transportation capacity sufficient to deliver 65% of the natural gas required to operate the CC Project 
at projected peak period capacity factors.  The initial base term of the Transco agreement began in 2004 
and ended on January 31, 2019.  The contract continues on an evergreen basis and MEAG Power has certain 
retention rights, which ensure continued service.  For the remainder of the facility’s natural gas 
transportation requirements, MEAG Power uses a combination of daily and short-term capacity purchases. 
MEAG Power has entered into six long-term natural gas purchase agreements with the Municipal 
Gas Authority of Georgia (“MGAG”) for gas sourced through six prepaid gas supply agreements.  These 
purchases are structured to match the usage in the peak  operating months and are expected to equal an 