
=====PDFPAGE 1=====
 
FERC Accepts Southeast Energy Exchange Market Settlement 
ATLANTA – The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission on Jan. 5  accepted a settlement 
reached between all parties involved in the Southeast Energy Exchange Market proceeding. 
SEEM provides an automated platform for energy transactions, allowing for short -term 
purchases across the Southeast that might not have otherwise occurred. It began operating 
in 2022 and FERC reaffirmed its authorization in 2025. 
SEEM enhances the existing market structure by allowing participants to submit bids and 
offers which can be matched for 15 -minute transactions that utilize otherwise unused 
transmission services and do not incur transmission charges. The result fosters competition 
and optimizes energy resources, enabling energy from all sources to be priced fairly and 
dispatched effectively, delivering cost savings and efficiency gains to customers. 
Under the settlement, SEEM will publicly post the average hourly price data for transactions 
made on the platform during the prior hour. In exchange, all parties that intervened in 
opposition to SEEM will cease further legal action at FERC and withdraw cou rt appeals 
following the settlement’s effective date.  
“We appreciate all parties working to reach this settlement, which continues our 
commitment to transparency, cost savings and improved integration of all energy resources 
across the Southeast, ” said Lee Xanthakos, SEEM chair and director of electric transmission 
and system operations for Dominion Energy South Carolina. “Customers will ultimately 
benefit through improved efficiency and competitive prices offered through this platform, 
including renewable energy options. ” 
The SEEM market includes approximately two dozen utilities spanning 12 states — from 
Florida to Missouri — and represents a combined generation capacity of more than 180,000 
megawatts, demonstrating the power of regional collaboration benefiting millions o f 
customers. 
 